u2023-04-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 13th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Dávid Dócs will be notaries of my assistance. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Assembly in 2012... [[Noise. He's jogging the bell.]] Dear Parliament, In 2012, the National Assembly declared the starting date of the dramatic expulsion of the Hungarian population from the Highlands, 12 April, a parliamentary memorial day. After World War II, the reborn Czechoslovak state collectively held Hungarians and Germans responsible for the events of war. The Beneš Decrees restricted the fundamental rights of both nationalities, denouncing them of their nationality and legitimizing their elimination in all areas of life. The Czechoslovak government, assisted by the great powers, has managed to force as many Hungarians as possible to leave its home and land in the framework of a public exchange agreement with Hungary. The 76 years of the first train, which carried the displaced Hungarians, started on April 12, 1947, and until June 5, 1949 a new train was rolling on a daily basis towards Hungary. According to the cold and insensitive numbers of the population exchange, more than 76 thousand Hungarians from Slovakia were eventually transported to Hungary, while 60 thousand Slovaks chose to move out. The numbers are based on painful human fates, broken families, disappearing microcommunities. Deportation over the centuries has torn apart social, cultural, and economic fabric, and has left bleeding wounds to this day. The Hungarians in the Highlands suffered enormous losses. The population exchange has upset ethnicity rates, indigenous, color Hungarian settlements have become ethnically mixed, which has accelerated linguistic and cultural assimilation. But the exchange of people has had similar consequences for the Slovaks who have lived in peace and have remained in Hungary. Dear Parliament, The mother nation has always welcomed and welcomed Hungarians living across the border with open arms if they are threatened by any threat, persecution or disenfranchisation. Hungary is their home, where security, peace and solidarity await them. Thinking of the fate of the displaced, let us now recall the well-known creed of Mihály Vörösmarty:, There is no place for you in the great world outside of this / There is no place for you; / Bless or beat the hand of fate; / You must live here, you must die. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause.]] Dear Parliament, Bernadett Bakos, Member of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs.
u2023-04-12-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, While the government at least tried to argue for the relocation of battery plants, their main argument was that these monstrums create jobs. There are only two problems with the job creation of the government: one is that it is not true; the other is that even if it were true, it would be based on false assumptions. It is not true, because these factories do create jobs, but mainly in China and South Korea, because they are mainly migrant workers. For example, the proportion of Hungarian workers in the Samsung factory in Göd is only 50 percent. In the current state of the Hungarian economy, we could imagine more useful goals, where there would be hundreds of billions of forints of public money than job creation abroad. This is where we get to the second problem: the government knows only one indicator to describe the labour market, and this is the number of people employed. You no longer care how much you earn, under what conditions you work, how crisis-resistant your workplace is or how much the added value of your work is, the only thing that matters is that as many people work as possible, and it is not a problem if they are not even Hungarians. In terms of quantity and quality, Fidesz is always on the side of quantity. If we need to pay hundreds of billions to get their polluting factories here by multinational companies, then we will. It's like we're volunteering for exploitation, like we're volunteering to tell foreign corporations to come along, and we're here to make a living. There is nothing more evidence of this than that jobs created by battery production are labour intensive and of low value added jobs in hazardous plants, heavy metals and chemicals, where experience over the past period has shown that there are examples of serious accidents. Moreover, due to non-compliance with safety regulations, the authorities impose only ridiculous fines. It is also clear that they would like to pay much less for the same job now, such as in Germany. Workers are forced to work overtime, night work, because a small part of their salary is basic wages, the rest are performance dependent, and because of the rewriting of the labour code, there is no strong trade union that can represent their interests. In general, these companies also hinder the creation of works councils or trade unions. This is not the way out of the crisis, and this is not the way to catch up, nor is it the way to stagnation and break down. Because if we aim at the bottom of each production chain, if we identify as a single breakout point that we have no ambition, then we just keep falling apart. [[9.10]] In fact, the government wants to create economic policy by being infinitely pessimistic about the abilities of the country and the Hungarian people. You think it's a assembly plant, and the only chance we have is to accept it and even consider it as a basis, and that's what we're starting with. Today, three players are actually fans of a two-speed Europe: one is the developed core countries, the other is the multinational companies established by them, and the third is the Hungarian government itself. If Hungary is to be a successful country, we should think about the longer term instead of the short one, and there are two things that follow: on the one hand, we are not selling but protecting our natural values, because we know precisely that in 10-20 years we will not have more treasure than our waters or our agricultural land, which the government is trying to sell now; on the other hand, besides the number of jobs, we also have to pay attention to the quality of jobs. We need high value-added jobs, where people are not exploited, but pay for their knowledge, jobs that are crisis-resistant, not delivering the country's economy to all crises, and for this we need much better education, stronger workers' rights and much greater faith in the talent of Hungarian people, but we have moved away from all of these over the past 13 years. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-04-12-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett. On behalf of the Government, Mrs Zsófia Koncz will respond.
u2023-04-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have spoken for a long time about jobs, about the importance of jobs, and we agree on this, but I think that we do not agree that, if I remember correctly, you have said that we believe that in all aspects we must be on the job to ensure employment. Well, I think the success story of the past period is that we have actually been able to create a million jobs. And you also have to see that the Hungarian automotive industry plays an incredibly important role throughout the Hungarian economy, it works for practically hundreds of thousands of families, and we are talking about a new technology, in which, I think, the Hungarian labour force, the Hungarian businesses would like to participate in this competition. And here I have said this several times among the walls of the Parliament, but I really have to repeat this, because even about six months ago, when we talked about carbon neutrality and reducing CO2 emissions, about European Union and Hungarian legislation in this regard, then you have very much agreed on how important it is that more and more electric cars appear in Hungary as well, and what an important factor this is in achieving our commitments with climate neutrality. And I have to bring quotes here, and I have to bring them here because I do not understand this kind of attitude, which is also offensive to Hungarian jobs, which have been represented in recent years. You said that the LMP said that it wanted to make Hungarian people the winners of the era of electric cars, renewable energy, green light, smart devices and smart cities. I think that this is an important aspect that we obviously need to participate in this competition, and battery production is essential for electric cars. E-car rides are unstoppable and are expected to represent 20-25 percent of global car sales within ten years. What are we gonna do about it? We're locking ourselves in the structure of the past. That's what Erzsébet Schmuck said. I think that we should not lock ourselves in the structure of the past, but that we should be able to participate in this competition, and, well, you said that we are talking about 20-25 percent of global car sales, that means that if you do not want us to participate in this competition, then in practice you do not want Hungarian people, Hungarian jobs and Hungarian families to participate in this competition in the future. I could still quote you, but I would rather say how others may be involved in this competition. We do see that today there are battery factories in France, the Netherlands, Poland, Great Britain, Italy, Sweden and Spain, and there are expected to be a battery plant with lithium-ion in half of the 27 Member States. Only in Germany is expected to be 14 battery factories, and in all countries with the exception of Cyprus and Malta, they will in some way participate in the value chain as producers. It should also be borne in mind that relatively recent news is that Porsche announced that it would set up a battery plant worth around EUR 1 billion in Slovakia, the investment was granted by the Slovak Government with a direct grant of EUR 4.2 million and tax relief. By the end of 2022, in Poland, there were 60 companies directly involved in the production of lithium-ion batteries. And in practice, according to the European Green Agreement, Hungary will have to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, otherwise Hungary is among the first in the European Union to do so by law, as I said. In this earlier, I think we agreed that there was a very sudden change, a turnaround in your position. Of course, to talk about this issue is an important issue, we consider this to be an important issue, we also consider environmental rules to be an important issue, the preservation of nature, all of our treasures that we want to give to the future generation, but also in the competition that concerns Hungarian competitiveness and the workplace of Hungarian families, I think we should not fall behind, and I ask for support from my fellow Members and the LMP faction to support the position of the Hungarian government in this regard, as before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-4	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. Rebeka Szabó, the representative of the Dialogue, also applied for a speech before the agenda. The title of his speech is:.. Each third Hungarian lives in energy poverty and calls for dialogue-GREENS action. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-5	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and Gentlemen, According to various research studies in Hungary, 15-20 percent of the population live in energy poverty, which means nearly two million people. It is not a marginal issue, therefore, but a problem that affects at least one in five Hungarians, and a serious problem that Fidesz has not solved in 13 years, but has not even managed to alleviate. Whatever indicator we are looking at, unfortunately, there has been no less trouble, neither from the debt of several months, nor from the households disconnected from the supply of energy, and, moreover, from this data, even before the removal of the otherwise false reduction of the rent. The state MVM, which has been sending letters of formal notice after a few months' backlog, is up-to-date, has not yet been able to provide further information on our question several weeks ago, but I hope they will arrive sooner or later. We do know that the literature talks about energy poverty, don't we? [[Bence Rétvári: Literature!]] If a household is forced to spend an irrationally high proportion of its income on the energy bill, or if it lives in the cold or dark that is harmful to health without adequate financial means, that is to say, less heat or light than is necessary for a decent living in a given climate. Three quarters of low-energy households live in a family home, mainly in rural and rural areas. In 600,000 Hungarian households, they cannot use wired energy for heating, this could mean 1.8 million people, and this is not in the third world, but in Hungary, in the 14th year of the Prime Ministership of NER, Viktor Orbán. I think, unfortunately, this is a complete failure of your reduction in your rent. And the deepest thing is that in about 9,000 households there is no wired electricity at all, nearly 8700 Hungarian children grow up in places where they have to light candles at night to see the plate, their homework or even each other. I would like to talk about the problem of this 9,000 households, this nearly 8,700 children. I don't know, you've calculated how much it costs to light candles in a one-bedroom apartment all winter. [[Bence Rétvári: Built out of two billion, right?!]] This is likely to cost more in a month than they spend on electric lighting in Viktor Orbán's Cinege street palace. [[9.20]] The candle is expensive and does not affect the reduction of the overhead. [[Bence Rétvári: Turdai!]] But have you thought about what it's like... You speak very loudly, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. [[Bence Rétvári: To make sure you hear it.]] So, have you thought about that? By the way, I'm talking about kids who light up a candle at home for homework, and you guys are talking. This tells me everything about you, but I will try to continue my speech. So have you thought about what it's like to go home, live in a home, study, raise a child, where it's dark in winter without candles, from 4:00 to 9:00 in the morning? I know that this does not affect you personally, and you thank God probably no one in this room, but it is a shame that there are Hungarian children still living in these conditions in 2023, Europe. And the problem of these people, these 8700 children, could and should have been solved a long time ago. Not only is it the price of a stadium, but the cost of a couple of chairs in a small country stadium would have been enough. And do you know what was missing? For your part, the will and the good will. There's a solution, by the way. As the Baksi Light Bringers Foundation's program has shown for many years, this solution can be simple. It takes a solar battery, which can be purchased in a hardware store, a few meters of wire, flashlight and even a used battery. A few thousand forints per apartment, and a sustainable solution using renewable energy, which makes its users even more environmentally conscious. We are satisfied that the government has been doing nothing on this issue for 13 years. The team of the Dialogue-Greens, including Benedek Jávor, Timea Szabó or Bence Tordai, will run Ultrabalaton in May, and the run will be linked to a community fundraiser so that this foundation can bring light to new families. You can meet our ambassadors on social media. We are aware that this cannot help everyone, but it may be for some families, and the example may be sticky; perhaps others will join it, perhaps even the ruling party itself. With the price of a Balaton faction meeting, all the houses of an entire village could be lit up. But to be safe, we will also present a proposal for a resolution in order to see what the solution is that we will put on the table. And let me just say to the end that if you have a drop of human feeling, you will not be starting to spin instead of a meaningful answer, because nearly a decade and a half ago this Prime Minister resigned, and I think that this 8700 children will not be helped. It's a shame to point backwards, you've been ruling for 13 years, and you have both the responsibility and the opportunity. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-04-12-6	Thank you, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. State Secretary Zsófia Koncz will answer on behalf of the government.
u2023-04-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I didn't want to point backwards in any way, but it does come to mind because we see that on the side of the opposition, the person who did very, very bad things about energy prices before 2010 is still the most dominant person who did very, very bad things about the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, the families and persons you mentioned. The energy prices were raised 15 times, the Hungarian families and the Hungarian people paid the most expensive energy in Europe. These are facts and should be highlighted because now the important role of the opposition is essentially played by the same person, which cannot be ignored. That's why I wanted to highlight this. By the way, you've been on a very important subject. The European Commission has a recent survey that 48 percent of Europeans are concerned about paying their rent. So what you can see is that in the war situation on which this government has clearly been on the side of peace since the very beginning, and we, of course, want this war to end as soon as possible, there should be an immediate ceasefire and peace talks, and we would like the opposition to agree with us, then the situation that causes the energy crisis, inflation, food prices to grow could end. This is what we want, because it would really be very helpful for Hungarian families. Congresswoman spoke about energy prices, which she mentioned. I would like to highlight the difference between Hungarian energy prices and natural gas compared to other European countries, which should be helped by Hungarian families. In Zagreb, Bratislava, Bucharest and Warsaw they pay more than double, in Vilnius and Tallinn triple, in Sofia and Ljubljana, in Prague six times, in Amsterdam seven times, in Rome and Vienna eight times, and in Stockholm twelve times the domestic price is paid by the families and the people living there. In the case of electricity, this may be a little milder, more than double in Bratislava and Warsaw, four times in Prague, in Rome, London, Berlin and Dublin, people pay more than five times the prices reduced in Hungary. These are facts. The government is trying to help Hungarian families the most with the Rezségvédelmi Fund. On 31 March, we decided to amend the budget for 2023, in which we increased the amount of the Rezségvédelmi Fund: from 670 billion to 2600 billion HUF. It's very sad that you didn't vote for this. I think that this is an important question, an important question, that when we are fighting for something, it is also worth continuing in action, because we cannot help families if we do not raise the Redemption Fund. I would like to encourage the congresswoman that the solution to the war would be if peace were to be achieved in all respects, and that the Hungarian government's position would also be represented in Brussels. But what we can see is that, unfortunately, this is not exactly what they're doing in this case. The New York Times acknowledged that sanctions against Russia did not have the desired effect. We are of the opinion that sanctions only cause damage. The good news is that the government reviewed the energy situation at its meeting last week and found that all resources were available to maintain the retail reduction. Congresswoman mentioned MVM. I think that this is also an important decision, because businesses and municipalities belonging to the former final asylum service, churches and foundations, which, if they did not conclude contracts by 31 December, were automatically placed in the same category as the one at that time. We have decided that we will also implement the amendment of these treaties, and we will help put current prices in this. So let us ask for the support of the congresswoman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-8	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. Member Mrs Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, also applied for an address before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-04-12-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to highlight three weaknesses in the Hungarian government's economic policy and urge immediate action in these areas. One is the appreciation of workers, the second is the funding for education and the third is the increase in productivity. The government seems to think that the highest value of workers is that they are cheap in Hungary, as the second lowest minimum wage can be boasted by this government in Europe. This would be more of a shame, and we would like to achieve an increase in our country, as is usually the need to raise wages, since there are only three countries in the European Union where workers are cheaper than in Hungary. In terms of education, this figure is even lower, because there are only two countries behind us in this area, while when you took over the government, there were eight of you behind us in terms of education. So this is clearly the result of this government's responsibility and economic policy. But it should not only be about salaries if we look at the situation of the Hungarian population and workers, but also about their state of health. This is important for the economy as well as morally. Hungary is second to avoidable deaths in the European Union, and the three main deaths are only related to lifestyles. So, if a conscious program was launched to encourage a change of lifestyle, billions could be saved in health care and the health of the Hungarian population would also be improved and the number of years spent in health would increase. [[9.30]] Since 2017, the resources for education have decreased in Hungary in proportion to GDP. This can be clearly seen from the data of the KSH, although Hungary was still above the EU average at the time of the first Orbán government in this indicator, it is now well below this. Tertiary graduates are also present in a very low proportion of the Hungarian population among the 25-34 age groups. We are in the 25th place of the European Union in this regard, so let us not dream of a knowledge-based economy with such indicators. On the other hand, among the eight generals or those who have not done so, the proportion in the population is twice that of the other countries of the V4, almost 14 percent, while in the other countries of the V4 it is only 7 percent. CHAPTER XXI We are also in the 21st position of the European Union in terms of digital knowledge, so Hungary has not managed to get any closer to the EU average here, and we are also the last of the V4 in higher education in terms of innovation expenditure. These figures, which should base education, innovation and the knowledge economy, are very clear that the Hungarian government does not think that the level of knowledge of Hungarian workers should be competitive, but that they sell it with cheap wages, and that Hungarian workers are practically enslaved. Most of the profits are taken out of Hungary by multinational companies. The productivity level in the European Union is also the third lowest on the basis of Eurostat data. This shows that Hungary has also fallen in this respect, and there are few indicators in which you have managed to subdue even socialist governance, but this is one of them. Not only has the wage expenditure shown in education fallen brutally, as six more have been behind us in terms of productivity in the European Union until 2011, and now, from 2020, there are only exactly two of them behind us. According to the Hungarian Movement, we need to radically change the government's economic policy approach, primarily by investing in education, by creating a knowledge-based economy, by supporting sectors producing high added value, by bringing wage levels and living standards up to the western half of the European Union. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-12-10	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy will answer.
u2023-04-12-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have spoken on one of the most important issues for society, and I think, hearing what has been said, that there is no disagreement between us on the objectives. I think that what we think is different is where we started, where we are and where we are going and where we are going with its internal content and pace. You mentioned specifics. My suspicion is that we are not working from the same series of data, so allow me to share my own data series, which was confirmed and published by both Eurostat and the Hungarian Statistical Office. I think there is no debate between us that Hungarian society has been most afraid of losing a job in recent decades. All polls of the past decades show, including perhaps Covid and the current situation, that Hungarian families are primarily looking at the safety of livelihoods, jobs, access to work and livelihoods. In 2010, unemployment was 11 percent in Hungary. I don't talk about what happened before, it was 14 percent, but in 2010 it was 11 percent. This was 3.6 percent in 2022, so last December 31st. We were virtually below 4 percent, which, according to all international statistics, means practically full employment. There are a few percentages of every society that are simply not subject to the labour market because of the reasons you have listed, but those who have wanted to work in Hungary in recent years have had a job, had a job, had a job, can make a living from their work. He mentioned many topics, among them he focused on job security and statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and According to KSH data, the number of accidents at work decreased in 2022, while the number of fatalities was 20 percent lower than in previous years, in addition to the above mentioned increase in employment. This clearly shows the improvement of domestic working conditions in addition to arguably existing tasks and hyates. In this indicator improvement, it is also included that the OSH authority controls highly dangerous sectors each year, where workers' health, safety and safety are exposed to increased and more serious risks, such as construction, manufacturing, agriculture and, by the way, I would add normal households, where the number of domestic accidents is significantly involved in these statistics. Based on the experience of the OSH authority's investigation, employers or workers have broken OSH rules and sometimes have caused accidents at work. I would like to stress that, under the OSH Act, the employer is responsible for maintaining the requirements for non-healthy and safe work. This is not a new rule, however, it was also a fundamental provision in the workbooks of the last decades, which in recent years is also a primary aspect of very accelerated, very changed working conditions. This is therefore the responsibility and the liability. Madam Congresswoman mentioned it, and so allow me to respond briefly to the fact that the Hungarian Government supports the training of the workforce with very significant amounts, tens and hundreds of billions of people, the ability of the workforce to work, all the requirements that you have mentioned in your contribution. I believe that, under the current circumstances, the government will provide tens and hundreds of billions of people with adequate and adequate cover for this purpose. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-12-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Mr Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I have spoken many times over the past few weeks and months, but I can safely say that in recent years, too, in relation to the post office and the situation that has arisen. The processes that have started, I think I can safely say that my speech on this subject will be necessary several times. Last autumn, when the government announced that 366 post offices would not be closed, but that they would be suspended, I indicated that the 210 settlements involved would be in danger from now on in terms of this service, because the reopening of what is once closed is always doubtful. The first time I spoke on this subject was not last fall, but a year and a half ago. At the time, I indicated that, based on the internal information that I had received from the people working at the post offices, there was a rumor that there would probably be huge cuts in the post office at both personal and official level. [[9.40]] At the time, they said that I was spreading false news, so they even posted this news on the website of Magyar Posta. Besides me, the rural population would have been the happiest if it had been false news, but unfortunately it was not false news. Last year I asked the Prime Minister what proposals for solutions could be, but not only did I ask him, but I also gave him a proposal for a solution; unfortunately, neither he nor the Hungarian Government accepted this. I said Gambling Company. provide support since you are otherwise in very serious tying with the Hungarian Post, give support to the Hungarian Post in order to maintain it. They said they couldn't do that, because every single forint belongs somewhere else. Believe me, we can see that, by the way, a lot of people get a lot of money from the profit tax, from haircuts to gymnastics. If only one post could be saved from this amount, we would have done something already, but I think there would be a more serious source there to save much more than one. I asked for the support of the Hungarian government, then I was told that the government could not support a loss-making public company. I'll take it. At the time, I asked not to support the Posta, but to support the municipalities, and then the municipalities maintain these institutions. In addition to the fact that this is important, I think it would be even an obligation for the Hungarian Government to support the municipalities in carrying out this task. And a few weeks or a few months ago, it was announced that, in the wave of closure I assumed, which was said to be temporary last fall, the mail will not open, so this 366 post office, which was closed last year, will not open. Forty or a few of these are the ones that the municipalities have been able to re-open from their own budget and take over every cost from the cost of the hall to meet the needs of the population. This shows that there is a very high reception capacity on the part of the municipalities, but a fraction of them are unfortunately only able to do so to pay for the maintenance of the mail. I submitted a budget changer, two by number. One was about securing a source, exactly 20 billion forints, because in the government's opinion, that's what it would take to reopen these 300-some post offices, and that's what the government will provide. Over HUF 1500 billion of extra taxes came in last year, and I think there would be a framework for it to be rejected. I have also tabled a budget amendment to raise wages for these people. In the case of Hungarian average earnings, we can argue about the data published in KSH, but this may not be the point, but the average earnings of postal workers are much lower than that. I asked that we provide them with a wage increase following inflation from the central budget, nothing more than a wage increase following inflation. He was voted down, and the consequence of this is that a 10 percent increase in wages is now expected to result in a mass termination. A few weeks ago, it was announced that 1,200 people would be dismissed in groups, and people have been uncertain since then because they do not know who they are, which areas this will affect. And then, unfortunately, I won't be able to talk about the present miserable fate and situation of the couriers in time. Mr. State Secretary, you have just said that the Hungarian population and the labour sector are most afraid of job losses and that the safety of livelihoods is the most important thing for them. That's right, that's natural, and I think this applies to the entire Hungarian society, so I asked that we provide them with an adequate source of income for their wages, which, by the way, provides them and their families with a livelihood. If we don't do this, I think we can say that. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] so that we can compare what is currently happening with the destruction of the village of Ceaușescu in 1989, because it is an impossibility to live in rural areas. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-12-14	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond.
u2023-04-12-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing the issue of Magyar Posta here again, because it gives me the opportunity to say again that the proposals you have raised, I allow, well-meaning proposals do not solve, they are not able to solve the problems of Magyar Posta, which has been operating for nearly 180 years. The current status of Magyar Posta is double: it is obliged to perform its public service activities in part as a public service provider, and therefore, under the general rules, the Hungarian budget can complement its budget for the justified costs not reimbursed by revenue; the other is that it is a market participant primarily because of the parcel services, and therefore it is subject to the market and competition rules of the European Union. Therefore, it is simply not possible to give budget support to the Hungarian Post at the level set by the European Union, so above the public service rate; whether it is for any purpose, whether it be for development, whether it be for wages, whether it be for any other purpose, it simply cannot be against competition. This is the dual task the government has been trying to solve over the past decade. At the same time, Magyar Posta employed around 26 thousand employees at 2600 post offices a year ago. According to the European Union's usual standards, some 1400-1500 postal posts for this population and for this size of the country are considered to be certified by the associated staff and the corresponding budget support is considered to be permissible. This has been 15 million euros, I recall, in recent years, which is far from covering the costs you justify. The modernisation, development, internal technological expansion of Magyar Posta, the technical development of logistics centres and, last but not least, the provision of an appropriate wage level in recent years has always been a recurring task of the Hungarian government, in one order and year after year. Here, I would first of all like to deny the title of your question, to say that there are further closures. In fact, the management of Magyar Posta is looking for all municipalities in a commendable way, primarily the municipalities of small settlements, and offers them the multi-level partnership and cooperation that allows Magyar Posta to provide a European public service within a few years. I would like to start by saying that service to the house, i.e. delivery, did not affect the number of post offices in any way or the number of Hungarian Post Offices. Today and in the future, the postman will always take out pensions, deliver the addressed letters and deliver the addressed packages. It is true, as you said, that on the first stage, the Hungarian Post Office offered it to 35 settlements in the capital city, three hundred and sixty-some settlements in the country, so that if the costs were to be taken over, the further operation of the post office would be possible with this partnership; a part of the municipalities did not agree. What appeared in the press recently about small settlements under 1500 people, I must say, is untrue news. Mayors of the settlements under 1500 received a letter that they had been offered another cooperation. But the post office has been built into 220 small settlements of the Hungarian village program, while the Hungarian Post Office operates in 350-360 places. The aim is therefore not to reduce postal services, but to modernise and maintain them in the long term. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-16	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title: "Ongoing issues."
u2023-04-12-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The question of price caps and public prices is a very topical and important issue. The Hungarian government introduced this measure a little prematurely in the parliamentary campaign last year, first on two more foods, but the international situation after that, inflation and, of course, the Hungarian government's bad tax policy, when it hit food with the highest VAT in the European Union and introduced special taxes, led to the justification for introducing and maintaining these official prices and price caps last summer. [[9.50]] The Hungarian Socialist Party is also in favour of this measure, and we ask you, in the strongest possible terms, to maintain it for the future, as we have talked about their deployment. For many families, for many hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, the only help in the struggle for a living is this measure, so everything justifies that these measures remain, if temporarily. However, there is also a more topical issue, which is related to the issue of public prices and price caps: we are proposing to expand it, as summer is approaching, the beach season is approaching, and for Hungarian families not only food prices, inflation and living costs are a huge challenge, but also the issue of holiday rest, as it is well known that beach entrances are extremely expensive; besides free waters, natural waters and lakes, we have to pay for unrealistic beach passes. Therefore, we are proposing to the Hungarian Government, and we would like to ask that they take action, whether by regulation or by regulation, because the delegation law allows them to introduce, extend price caps or price laws by means of a decree, with reference to a war emergency. The Hungarian Socialist Party is available on this issue to expand and extend the official price, the price cap to be added to the beach passers, as for a large part of the family, the beach passers of nearly HUF 2 thousand are an unrealistic burden, for example, in the case of a beach trip to Balaton or Lake Venetian. This 600 HUF is a completely realistic price, all the more so, because there are many places where you can get in at this price, and it is not justified that there are nearly 2 thousand HUF tickets on other beaches. Therefore, the safety of Hungarian families, which is guaranteed by the official price of food prices, will at least help in this matter, and the question of the vacation and holiday of Hungarian families, is not to pay unrealistic entrances, since we are talking about 1500-2000 HUF in many places in addition to 600 forints, which certainly justify having such a price cap in this area. We can also call this a bathing cap so that Hungarian families can get there and do not prevent them from entering a beach. The government has the opportunity to use this either by regulation or at the price of legislation, as holiday rest is a huge challenge for Hungarian families in this economic situation. The difficulties of recent years have made this particularly impossible, and it is therefore justified to maintain it for basic foods, and it would be justified to extend it to beaches. I ask you with great respect, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Dömötör, on several occasions, I have been honoured to say that the person who did this will not say that there are plenty of free beaches in the area of Lake Balaton, for example, because that is a fact, but in some regions of Lake Balaton there is nothing at all, and very many are not in a position to decide which free beach zone they wish to vacation in. Those who have access to holiday in the northern coast, in particular, are unable to reach free beaches, and, of course, I repeat, this is a temporary proposal, as is the official price for food in this area as well. The Hungarian Socialist Party continues to fight to break down the fences, toll gates and toll gates of the paid beaches next to free waters; they need to be free of charge. However, until this happens, extend the price cap to these beach walkers, which is about 600 forints a reasonable price. I ask with respect that if you feel responsible for relaxing Hungarian families, we, as socialists and as Members, do the same, then you should also take action in this area. There are two great options: by regulation and by law, any one of them will be chosen, we will support you in this, and we will even give up the merit of putting this under the pressure of the Socialist Party. Recognize this unique opportunity. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-04-12-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Molnár. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2023-04-12-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that together we are looking for ways to expand further support programmes in this exceptional situation, and an important area is indeed tourism; it is an important area, but it is not the only priority area. I'd like to respond to that first. We had this debate last year, even before summer, about how to support beaches, reduce related costs, and remember well, we said that a significant part of the beaches in Balaton are free beaches. So when you claimed to have free beaches around Lake Balaton, you knocked on an open door, so much so that most of them were free; and there was this absurd scene that maybe there were airplanes circling over Lake Balaton on your behalf and demanding something that had already been done. Those beachers could've seen these planes. To be specific, along the shore of Lake Balaton, if we look at the beaches by stretch of coast, then two thirds of them are free beaches, and which are not free beaches, a significant part of them is municipal, so the government does not have an influence on how costs and tickets develop. I can tell you that the development of the beach that the government has supported is a significant part of the free beach. Within the framework of the Kisfaludy programme, 42 free beaches of 18 towns on the shore of Lake Balaton were renewed with a grant of HUF 4.5 billion. So what I can tell you is that if you consider it important for Hungarian families to receive high-quality services on the beaches, along Lake Balaton and other waters, the government will continue to provide all the support for this in the future. Given the question of price caps, I think it is important that there is also a debate about this because, as it seems that we have an agreement on price caps, if I look at the other players of Hungarian politics, the Hungarian opposition, that is absolutely not the case. But why do we need these price caps? Because not only Hungary, but all of Europe has been facing long-lost inflation, virtually unprecedented since the 1980s, and despite your attempts to deny it, the primary reason for this is the rise in energy prices, and it is the main cause of an extremely misguided sanctions policy. I told you yesterday, I am telling you today that this alone represents an additional expenditure of HUF 4,000 billion for the country. This is partly for businesses, partly for families and mostly for the Hungarian state; this means that Hungary's margin of movement is reduced by HUF 4000 billion. We could spend this 4,000 billion forints on something else. I am pleased that you have even noticed the measures of the pricestops, because other fellow Members say with a noble simplicity that the government has done nothing, but nothing. And the measure of price caps is not the only one that the government has introduced in recent months, for example, we are maintaining the interest rate stop, which, as a policy, is in sharp contrast to the pre-2010 policy where foreign exchange lenders were not given any assistance. Now the interest rate stop provides substantial help to hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. I also consider the issue of pensions to be important, that we were able to return the premium, along with the supplement, the 13th month, the 13th month that was taken away during left-wing governance. The January increase also applies to the 13th month part. I also think it is important that we have been able to carry on the firewood programme of the authorities, which has not been taken before. And to say one more thing, the new county lease system in the field of transport will provide a significant cost relief for people who use rail or bus transport regularly, whether for commuting. This represents a very large reduction in expenditure for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families, and I am pleased that this will be launched by the government. Finally, I would like to say one thing: if you agree with the price caps, the price limits, please convince your left-wing fellow Members that this is the right way. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's also because your fellow Members used to call it stupid. This isn't a good track. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[10.00]]
u2023-04-12-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Speaking also before the agenda, Ms Anna Orosz, representative of the Momentum, asked for a speech on the state of the art of education in NewBudan. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-04-12-21	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, NewBuda is not the only one affected by this issue that I am going to talk about. I have just arrived from the so-called educational resistance initiative "Zebraszerda" where civilians from Budafoki and New Buda [[Bence Rétvári: Civil movement?]] protest about the crisis in education. [[Bence Rétvári: And he was there because they were civilians!]] I'd like to show you a brief banner. [[He's showing me a cardboard.]] It says here that 60-hour shift... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. Crying out of the pro-government lines, among them: It's forbidden! The illustration is not allowed.]]
u2023-04-12-22	I must take the floor, honourable Member. [[Noise, interrogations from the pro-government ranks. Russian Anna intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I had to take the floor because you violated the provisions of the house rules on illustration. The Act on Parliament 46/C. I have to warn you in accordance with § (1). Continue your speech.
u2023-04-12-23	So I think it is important for you to see this banner, because unfortunately you are not going to talk to civilians, teachers, parents, stakeholders about the problems of education, and that is why I brought it in; and because I do not know that you know it, but the fact is that right now it is NewBudan and many other parts of the country that class trips can be missed, because teachers do not receive the remuneration due to them under the law for camping. This is roughly 40-50 thousand forints gross per teacher, and so far this has not been recorded by many, but now the teachers have said that it is enough, in addition to their humiliating wages, that they will not even do this job for free. The parents contacted the school district, said that Covid had already missed camps in recent years, and that the teachers of these students had specifically resigned because of the situation of education. The head of the study district replied that due to war inflation, there was no money in the district for this gross HUF 40-50 thousand per teacher, and that instead of the class trip, children would rather go to a three-day program. The municipality has offered its assistance, it is willing to pay for this amount, but of course it is not so easy to help the district because your goal is not to solve the problems, but to suppress protests. In the meantime, I don't know, you know, but today almost 4,200 teachers signed aHang's petition, saying that if the so-called status law enters into force from June 1, they will resign at the end of the school year. The status law extends the maximum working time, the replacement limit, the length of the school year, it also takes away the remaining autonomy from schools, the educational bodies, it extends the notice period from two months to six months, and it states by law that teachers will no longer be able to criticize our education system. I think everyone can see that this law proves that it is not your goal, that you are not sitting in your office of secretary of state or government to improve the situation of schools, hospitals or jobs, not serving your country. They have only one purpose to remain in power, and if anything threatens their power, if anyone makes criticism, is justified, in all its elements makes legitimate criticism of, for example, the situation of education, they will use all means to suppress this objection. On the other hand, we want to work for a country where students, teachers and parents are not enemies, but partners in government and education management, and where criticism, a legitimate counter-opinion does not give rise to retaliation, but thanks. You've been working 14 years, you've had every opportunity for 14 years, every authority you've had to set up schools like this. Compared to that, if someone makes criticism and happens to be a teacher, they will use force to suppress their resistance. Well, you're all in this room representing the Fidesz, of course, the KDNP, and I'm sorry I forgot about them, and that's how they're gonna get into the history books. And those who stand on the zebras on Wednesday mornings freezing to express their opposition, or those teachers who have been fired, and are now trying to defend their right in court, will pay tribute to them. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-12-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anna Russian. State Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2023-04-12-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In the first sentence, to compromise an event in this way, as you have done, that I am now coming from a civilian demonstration, I do not think it is possible, because you, in a statement, have denied that you are there as a politician at a civilian demonstration. Now, if this is a civilian demonstration, because there are civilians there or a politically organized demonstration, then you're there, but that you're holding a civilian demonstration, then you're going to enter the parliament gate and when you come through the magnetic gate, you're going to be a politician when you quit, and you're going to be a civilian; you're going to be speaking for the civilians. [[Anna Russian: You should go there too.]] "You speak for politicians here, how shall I put it, this is rather double and confusive, honourable Member. Of course, you had another sentence about the Hungarian education issue. Your then president, your then candidate for Prime Minister, András Fekete-Győr, took care of the issue of Hungarian education in a simple sentence, not only the energy policy with the solar power plants that he said to nuclear power plants, but also the issue of education with one sentence, he said: "We have an immense number of schools, and the quality of these is very bad. That's it. That was 170 thousand teachers, that was all the academic competitions, all the results, all the measurements that thank God, the Hungarian students take with good results; that too many schools, they have to close them, the quality of the ramaty. This is how you talked about Hungarian teachers when in the election campaign you wanted to get into Parliament. And then you say nice words here, that you have to listen to each other, that you need dialogue. Let's just stick with András Fekete-Győr that criticism must be tolerated. What did András Fekete-Győr do with the journalist who wrote critical articles against him? He broke into Origo's office, he wasn't called, he broke in there, and he stood at his desk, and he threatened the journalist, and then he said that every journalist who doesn't think like them, because he's not pushing the cart on the left, well, they should be banned from their profession. Is this the dialogue, honourable Member? ! Not to mention that what you are saying is not factually true, because you know that the bill that is not yet on Parliament's table, because it is at the stage of social debate, we sent for general consultation at the beginning of March, we invited representatives of trade unions and others in several circles, we did not have representative trade unions, so we did not have the 10% threshold, but we invited them in, we agreed with them; we convened the round table on the strategy for public education, the National Council for Public Education, we had these debates in all the bodies. That's what you're saying, there's no negotiation, there's no dialogue, there's no talking to anyone. And let's not forget that your allies, after all, have a pretty strong record of school closures, and they did it in 381 places. Gergely Arató, shadow minister, took over the keys that were symbolically brought by parents and children as keys to closed schools. But you also said a great deal about Ferenc Gyurcsány that the Momentum will provide an alternative to the insufferable government and the insufferable opposition. And what alternative did you offer? He asked for the list of Ferenc Gyurcsány, even though your president said that Ferenc Gyurcsány, what is the point, point, point in politics, could really get out of public life. Words like that, words like that, words like that, words like that, and then actions like that, what did they bring? They've asked, they've signed up as schoolchildren, that I'd like to be on Ferenc Gyurcsány's list, take me in, take me in, we'll have a seat on the common list. Before that, it's big talk, big reading, and then it's slumber and compliance with Gyurcsány. It doesn't bother you that they've laid off 15,000 teachers, that's okay; they've introduced tuition fees, that's okay, they're okay. As far as the war penalty period is concerned, honourable Member, your politicians are not working to prevent these sanctions from affecting Hungary, and not to increase the rent for all families, schools, hospitals, every police station or every factory in Hungary. No! What did Anna Donath say in Brussels? We demand even more stringent sanctions. Even more stringent penalty: even higher overhead. That's what you want. And then, clearly, Ferenc Gyurcsány brought you down the most. What do you do in Brussels? He said openly, round pretzels on several occasions, he wrote it on Facebook, and said in a radio program: they are concerned that the funds due to Hungary should not arrive for the teacher's wage increase. In July last year, we presented our plans, in which we would spend about HUF 800 billion on teacher wage increases, and he said that you were engaged in never getting to Hungary while there is a Fidesz-KDNP government. [[10.10]] He said you don't have to lie about it, you have to be honest. It's a very formal sentence from Ferenc Gyurcsány, although he may be lying even when he says it's necessary to tell the truth. I don't know, I don't want to judge this right now, but it's clear that you are working against the Hungarian teachers. Our politicians are going to Brussels to get the money they deserve in the teacher's account as soon as possible: this year a 21 percent wage increase, next year 25 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then it's 29, and so it's 75 percent in two years. And you go to Brussels so that these teachers don't get 30-40 thousand forints or hundreds of thousands of forints plus as a wage increase. Well, you should be ashamed of yourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-26	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. At the same time, Mr Ferenc Dávid, representative of DK, spoke before the agenda with the title "Actual Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to begin my speech with a quote from the economic forecast of the European Union to be broken down by Member States. Quote begins:. In the first three quarters of 2022 the country produced a 4.3 percent increase in GDP thanks to the government's measures. The labour market and wage growth are strong and state aids have successfully overcome the problems caused by energy price increases. å Guess, fellow Members, which country is this? Can you imagine that Germany or Sweden was described by the experts of the EU, perhaps by accident by reading the Hungarian government propaganda? None of them are true. But I'll continue, quote:, due to high inflation, lower GDP growth is expected in 2023, around 2.5 percent, but thanks to EU funds, investment values will increase and growth will be higher than 3 percent by 2024 again. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I would like to add, fellow Members, that when the EU report talks about high inflation, it is in fact less than half of Hungarians. Have you figured out which country we're talking about? I'll help you, I'll tell you: neighbouring, often sorry Romania produces this growth. [[Bence Rétvári: You got it mixed up! Aren't you going to tell me this in the Bucharest Parliament?]] Let's make some comparisons. When the EU report talks about a lower increase in GDP of 2.5 per cent for Romania, the same figure is 0.6 per cent for us, so it is only a fifth of Romanian growth. When an increase of more than 3 per cent is expected in Romania for 2024, waiting for us is hardly 2.5 per cent. Romania will probably be ahead of us this year, and the standard of living of Romanians who have been far poorer and living in worse conditions in recent decades is higher than that of Hungarians. Romania has every reason to be confident about the future. The Romanian recovery plan has already been adopted by the European Union. It was frozen in our case. [[Bence Rétvári: You didn't vote!]] and this will strengthen their economy by hundreds of millions of euros. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] They have a stronger international position. The open opposition to strong NATO pro- NATO and Russian aggression has made them an important factor within the Euroatlantic Alliance. Again, this leads to the conclusion that Romania will have a serious competitive advantage over us in the coming years. Before they say good-good, good economic growth is beautiful, but I'm sure all the money will be stolen there too: Romania is now in a better position on international corruption lists than Hungary, and their position is constantly improving, but ours is deteriorating. My fellow Members, we must now use a magnifying glass to look for indicators in which we are even better than Romania. They have a more stable exchange rate, they are already considering the introduction of the euro, the economy is growing and taxes are lower. What about us, on the other hand? With inflation in Orbán and a 40 percent increase in food prices, we are by far the driving force in Europe. The price of Orbán's irresponsible economic policy can be paid every day in stores, the price of food is increasing at such a rate that shopkeepers have to change the price tags daily. Families can barely afford a bigger shopping, pensioners have to choose between food and medicine. In vain, you point to someone else, Brussels, the left, the sanctions, inflation in Orbán and the seven-time increase took the Hungarians' money entirely because of your fault. We must learn from the example of the neighbouring country, yes, from the example of Romania, that it is not necessary to steal the country, but that EU funds must be used to develop the economy. If Klara Dobrev was prime minister, we would have brought the money home by now. [[Bence Rétvári: Then we'd be in Romania! Then it would be Bucharest! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] which would have been put to the good of the country with a conscious economic policy. Therefore, the shadow government is now Hungary's only hope of getting out of the livelihood crisis, and we will catch up not only with Romania, but also with Austria. [[Interjection, disclosure in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And to take their happy moods back a little bit, I don't know if they've read today's KSH data. Inflation remains sharp, above 25 percent, and food inflation is 42,6 percent. Bravo, gentlemen and ladies. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause from DK's ranks. A statement from the Fidesz: Shame on you!]]
u2023-04-12-28	My fellow Members, may I have some peace, please? Thank you very much, Congressman Dávid. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2023-04-12-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As I understand it, you are setting an example of the neighbouring country, Romania, showing some indicators that it is performing better than Hungary. I am, however, saying that we should go out to Romania without the numbers, talk to Transylvanian Hungarians there, then speak to the Hungarians of Transylvania, and ask them in which country they would like to live; that is, in terms of the existence, livelihood, safety in Hungary. My conversations indicated that Hungary would be the most popular choice. Why am I saying this? In order to assess the performance of the Hungarian economy, it is necessary not only to evaluate the present moment, but also to evaluate the performance of the past more than ten years. In the last ten years, Hungary has been able to set an economy in ruins on a growing path. In terms of economic growth, Hungary has been at the forefront of the European Union over the past ten years. In addition, one million new jobs have been created in Hungary, so the 57 percent employment rate in 2017 is now 74,4 percent among 15-64-year-olds. By the way, at the end of last year, this figure was 63 percent, and their unemployment rate is higher than that of Hungary. However, this is equally true of the investment rate, which determines the performance of the economy. In Hungary between 2010 and 2022 it rose to 28,5 percent, whereas in Romania it was 25 percent, lower than the Hungarian one. However, when it comes to living, comparing wages, we must also establish that domestic wages are significantly higher than those in Romania in terms of minimum wage. In 2023, Hungary has 397 euros to live on, while Romania has 372 euros. In Hungary, the minimum wage is rising to the highest extent, with Hungary achieving the highest increase in the Visegrád countries. I think that the Hungarian government has nothing to be ashamed of, but especially the Hungarian economy. And you have nothing to be ashamed of in this difficult situation, either, because we should not forget that there is a war next door, because as a result of the war, the European Union has imposed economic sanctions on us, sanctioned inflation, against which the Hungarian government is taking measures that do not happen in Romania: we protect families until the average consumption by reducing the rent, protect pensioners with the 13th month pension and the inflation-following pension. [[10.20]] And, of course, we also help economic operators with various programmes, factory rescue programmes, various positive credit opportunities and investment for development. I believe that the performance of the Hungarian economy and the cooperation of the Hungarian government give us the right to have good hope that once the war is over, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian budget, will return to the course that was before the war, to a growth path and, of course, to a balance path, to the full service of the Hungarian people and to their benefit. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-30	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Member Béla Mihálffy, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, 413 days ago, a vicious and mindless bloodshed began, where the people suffer, and the people are the victims. It has been 413 days since the war of two Slavic brothers, the war that progresses step by step according to a well - written script. In the early days of the war, the greater part of Europe, which makes a pro-peace voice, no longer pursues peace, but became a toy of the great powers, because a series of statements and actions that could escalate the Russian-Ukrainian war took place a few months after the outbreak of the war. At first, only humanitarian aid turned into the transport of weapons of war and the direct training of Ukrainian soldiers in a year's time. A few months after the war broke out, Europe and the transatlantic region went into war psychosis. Europe is torpedoing itself with an obsessive obsession, and its compliance with the United States is driving the long-standing continent towards disaster. European politicians are increasing their stakes voluntarily. 35 so far, so many countries have sent deadly military weapons into the war, including Australia, Sudan and Pakistan, in addition to the United States. As for the composition of the weapons arsenal: from light weapons to modern weapons of destruction, the list, tanks, anti-aircraft missile systems, long-range missiles, armored vehicles. The Western powers and Brussels are trying to prolong the conflict with continuous arms shipments and billions of dollars. They don't care about human life, they don't care about immeasurable suffering. The war zone is not a wellness center, there is a struggle for survival every minute. Sitting in a comfortable chair, they make these decisions easily, because they don't fight in the front line. Of course, we know that nothing happens by accident. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the last year, there are both great winners and losers, because the war has sharpened power relations, accelerated the transformation of world order and repositioned the position of several countries. In order to achieve this goal, however, politicians who believe that they are the holders of the truth seem to be putting everything on the same page, living in the misconception that there will be no new world war, no matter how far they can push the string. Yet, with the unlimited military support of Ukraine, their irresponsible decisions create the risk of nuclear war; therefore, they are playing with the existence of human civilization. Unfortunately, it seems that European politicians have not learned from the previous two world wars, they do not understand or do not want to understand that the war will first be suffered by Europe, the people of Europe. Speaking of George Santayana, those who forget the past are condemned to relive it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr President, Dear Parliament, Now there was Easter, the greatest celebration of the Catholic Church, the triumphant resurrection of Christ, the feast of hope, of light. We must trust and hope in the power of love that quotes the apostle Paul: "He does not rejoice in wickedness, but he rejoices with the truth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, With his death on the cross, Jesus did not free the world from suffering, but he redeemed the sin of all men, and with his resurrection he triumphed over death. I'm the creator and the creature. I'm turning from Jesus to Christ. I was a son of God, and I will be. I always judge myself. Man, remember, I've suffered for you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, According to the Easter message of Cardinal Peter Erdő, Archbishop of Esztergom-Budapest, Jesus' cross sacrifice will bring peace between God and man, and he who experiences this peace as a true love relationship will feel his brother's neighbor and will be able to make sacrifices in order to live in peace with them. We, Christian Democrats, stand by peace and pray for a ceasefire as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Mihalffy. On behalf of the government, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, will answer.
u2023-04-12-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In our neighbor's war, hundreds of thousands of people have died and millions of people have had to flee their homes. Meanwhile, Europe is living its days of drifting into war. Brussels and other international interest groups in the war and speculators put enormous pressure on our country, they want us to join the pro-war countries and start transporting weapons. These are the countries that started with helmets, then the ammunition, later the weapons, then the armored combat vehicles, and now we're in combat cars and missile systems, and here come the fighter planes. And the more countries get involved in the war, the more we drift towards a world war. And there's no doubt that if there's a world war, there's going to be a nuclear war. At the same time, Europe as a whole suffers from the harmful consequences of failed sanctions in Brussels. These accepted economic and energy sanctions did not appease the war, the Russian economy was not brought to its knees, but the sanctions pushed energy prices, caused economic damage and raging inflation, and there is no family that does not feel the burden of sanctioning inflation. The Hungarian government is working to preserve the strength of the Hungarian economy, so it launched a war against inflation, protecting jobs and families, the elderly and those living from work. We strengthen Hungary's military power, because we need strength to preserve peace, weapons and military technology and a strong army, but not by sending it to the war zone, but by protecting ourselves. We also take our membership of the NATO Alliance seriously. We conspired to protect ourselves, and from this defense, we will take our part in this alliance. It is an honor for us in Fehérvár to have two direct NATO headquarters in Székesfehérvár, both the unit integrating NATO forces and the security of Hungary and Fehérvár in the Central European multi-national divisions. We also consider it important that the Hungarian Parliament has set its position in a resolution. A decision always lays down the basic questions. And the groundwork is simple: Hungary was pro-peace and will remain on the side of peace, and will continue to stay out of the Russian-Ukrainian war. This pro-peace resolution reflects the position of the Hungarian people. Last year's parliamentary election and the results of the consultation on sanctions confirm the position that the end of the war can be brought not by sanctions, but by peace talks, ceasefires and peace, because life can only be saved by ceasefire and peace, and that is why we are on the side of peace. [[10.30]] It is unbelievable and also shocking that the Hungarian left cannot be expected even in this. The Hungarian left-wing parties have been on the side of the war from the beginning, and have not supported the pro-peace resolution proposal in Parliament, since the Hungarian left supports the war against the Hungarian interests. But there's nothing to be surprised about. The dollar left was given the task of representing the pro-war position in Hungary in exchange for the dollars, because it is in the interest of their employer. And this dollar left has made it clear several times since the outbreak of the war that he would send weapons or soldiers into the war. However, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we Hungary is and will remain on the side of peace. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-12-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, Attila Stojka, representative of Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last weekend, on 8 April, we celebrated Roma culture day. At times like this, the culture of Gypsy and the situation of the community are always given greater attention. However, the festival was clouded by another autumn speech from the left. Admitting that they are working to prevent EU funds. This action affects everyone, but we, the Roma, in particular. That is why I have not been delayed to respond on behalf of the Roma. We have heard many times that the Roma have been the losers of the change of regime, and that is true, because most of them have lost their jobs and their livelihoods. It took you a long time to break through. In view of the work of the national government over the last decade, we can say that the real change of regime in Roma only started in 2010 with the establishment of the national government. Before 2010, just under left-wing governments, poverty was dealt with symptomatically, largely by means of relief. Yet, this type of social policy has only led to the maintenance of vulnerability. Conservative social policy, on the other hand, sees the best means to combat poverty in creating a work-based society. The Hungarian model of catching up and creating opportunities in the field of the use of EU development resources is operational. In my speech the other day, I said that the left is trying to undermine the achievement of the Hungarians' resources and the continuation of the chance-creating work. Of course, they were still trying to deny that fact. Now we know, because their leader confessed on his social media site and even in a radio interview that it was their job to prevent access to EU funds. Let us be clear: you are not working against the government, but against the rise of Hungarian people, people living in poverty. In 2022, the national government was authorised to continue its journey in 2010. This mandate is also a class of trust and results. The number of people living in poverty has decreased by over a million people, because we see resources in Gypsy and we don't think it's a problem; in fact, as long as you turn your head away from gypsyism, that's what the left has confessed, we lead people into the world of work. We have the most Roma in Europe, because we see that when there is work, there is everything. But we can't sit back, we know that we still have a job to do, and we still have untapped resources in this area. It is therefore essential that the well-established programmes that we have launched and contributed to the catch-up results can continue. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the left is lobbying not against the government in Brussels, but against the Hungarian people, and indeed, it must be said, against those in need. Because when you, the left-wing representatives, hinder access to resources, in fact, 25 thousand people's occupations, the extension of existing settlement programmes to at least 80 settlements, the improvement of accommodation conditions for 1,600 people, access to social housing, the creation of new jobs in the settlements, the learning of thousands of children in new schools, the employment of thousands of Roma women, and the commitments of the period up to 2027 still remain. It cannot be in anyone's interest to stop fighting poverty for political, ideological reasons. You know why? Because the person living in poverty is not responsible for putting political and ideological pressure on Hungary by the left; he just wants to live better. Preventing access to EU funds means preventing this assistance. It makes direct human fates difficult. I would ask my fellow members of the Government to continue to stand up for the Hungarian people, for the Hungarian interest, trusting that the reasonable representatives of the opposition will also support the cause. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-12-36	Thank you, Congressman Attila Stojka. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2023-04-12-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think, if it hasn't been clear to everyone so far, well, in the last few days it has become clear to everyone that Ferenc Gyurcsány has nothing, but nothing is expensive when it comes to keeping power or regaining power. In 2006, on October 23, 2006, we saw that if it was to keep power, it was not expensive for him to have peaceful commemorations of street violence; for they had ordered a cavalry attack on peaceful, unarmed memorialists, sent tear gas, fired rubber bullets. Because then Ferenc Gyurcsány thought that if such an action was carried out and there were violent scenes on the street, it could also serve to maintain his power by intimidating those who would object to it, and that people saw chaos in it, and that he was still the way out of chaos. So we saw that he was unscrupulous then, and we have seen and heard his statements in the past few days. What's he saying? He says that he thinks that the worse it is for Hungarian people, the better for Ferenc Gyurcsány; and he wants it to be very good for him, so that he can put his wife in the Prime Minister's seat, so that she will not be the shadow Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister. We have heard that the Romanian model is being introduced here in Hungary by Klára Dobrev and his shadow government, so they are heading towards Bucharest, and they would also take Hungary there. So the important thing for Ferenc Gyurcsány is that his wife should be the Prime Minister, he should once again be the one who dominates Hungary, and therefore the country should be in as bad a state as possible, so they will do everything they can. Thank God that their opportunities are scarce, because here in Parliament one third of the parliament is not represented by the Hungarian dollar left, but they have sold themselves to foreign interest groups for their return to power; that is why they have accepted US dollars, especially out of Democratic circles, equivalent to 4 billion forints to take the politics of the American Democrat position there in Hungary; to end the self-determination of the Hungarian parliament, the Hungarian Parliament, Hungary, and instead follow in every respect the direction of one of America's leading trends, the liberal-left direction of Democrats there. And part of this operation, or part of this plan, is what Congressman said, that if less money comes to Hungary from the funds we deserve from Brussels, then that is indeed, as you said, the failure of programmes that have been launched before among the most deprived; that means that there is no school renovations, kindergarten renovations, or that it pushes the introduction of a teacher's wage increase; and that it will then increase dissatisfaction in Hungary, and then they will ride this dissatisfaction, they will say that it is because of Viktor Orbán, and then they will come to power. But he couldn't stand it; as Péter Márki-Zay said almost everything, Ferenc Gyurcsány sometimes spits out things, although he is less often and more disciplined, but he said that it is he, the DKs, and the Hungarian left, who has not come to Hungary yet for a single cent. This is their plan, they want it, I just don't know why he told me that if he wanted to blame it on Viktor Orbán, that there is corruption and dictatorship here, and that is why we don't have the resources we deserve, then why say that he is actually working on saying in Brussels that there is corruption and dictatorship in Hungary. This is also a self-deception in this area; it seems that Ferenc Gyurcsány was not fully controlled by the fallen Prime Minister to find out why. And he said in a radio show that what they want to blame Viktor Orbán and the government is really what they do, and the so-called Brussels conditions he calls milestones, which are included in this, they are not really Brussels, but Ferenc Gyurcsány admitted I do not know exactly where DK's headquarters is, that these conditions come from DK's headquarters. And they are not Brussels and the rule of law at all, but they are simply left-wing, dollar-left, and they are formulated in Hungary. [[10.40]] It is not a great price to go back to power, even if it is true that some of the programs, some of which, thanks to God, I look at the Roadway Scholarship Programme, the minority scholarship scholarship, the Roma minority scholarship scholarship, the Arany János Talent Care Program, the Arany János dormitory program, the Travel Fund, the Bursa Hungarica, the Commissioner's Children's House or Schools, some of which are the most important programs, we have already raised into the national budget, we spend 1 billion and 2 billion, in other places 3 billion, but we have partly carried out the 300 poorest settlements from EU funding, in the 300 most disadvantaged settlements, we have already put up to the national budget, we have spent 1 billion and 2 billion, but we would still continue to support local community, whether by sport or culture, but we would continue to do so from this 6 billion HUF, for example, to prevent them from reaching out in the 300 most disadvantaged settlements. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] These are cohesion resources, so they aim to help those in the toughest line [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány wants to punish them for not being elected in the elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the publication of the Convention on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information until its closure. Government referral T/3519. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State of the Cabinet Office, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-04-12-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary has already concluded agreements with 28 countries on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information in recent years, including Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Finland, Poland, Luxembourg or Sweden. The Convention to be concluded or approved with Bosnia and Herzegovina was signed in October 2021; the legal basis for the conclusion of bilateral confidentiality agreements was established by the entry into force of the Act on the Protection of classified information in 2010. The Conventions shall specify, inter alia, the rules concerning security cooperation, the transmission, reproduction, translation or destruction of classified information and shall designate the competent authorities and specify the procedures to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. In the present case, Hungary and Bosnia and Herzegovina have undertaken to ensure equally strict protection of classified information exchanged or generated under the Convention. In addition to further enhancing cooperation between the two countries in the fields of defence, police and the fight against international organised crime and terrorism, the Convention further strengthens the security of our country, which is particularly important in the current war situation. That is why we ask the honourable Members and gentlemen to support the bill on this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-12-40	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gyula Szeberényi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is another stage in a 13-year process. The new legislation on the protection of classified information in force from 2010 has created a single legal and institutional system for the protection of classified information and we have complied with our obligations of harmonisation. The possibility of concluding bilateral confidentiality agreements has been opened, starting with the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic, and then almost all European partner countries have concluded bilateral confidentiality agreements. As with the former, the Convention with the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina details, inter alia, security cooperation, transmission, reproduction, translation or destruction of classified information, and designates the competent authorities and sets out the procedures to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. The Fidesz parliamentary group naturally supports the adoption of the bill on the international treaty before us. Please support me. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-12-42	Thank you, Congressman Gyula Szeberényi. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-04-12-43	Thank you very much. Dear House, The purpose of the Convention is to protect classified information exchanged or generated in cooperation between the Contracting Parties and public bodies subject to jurisdiction, or other bodies such as economic entities. The purpose of this Convention is to record the definition of basic concepts and the competent authorities, which, in the case of our country, is the National Security Inspectorate. The Contracting Parties shall provide for the security cooperation activities covered by the Convention, in which case the scope of access to classified information, the principles of data security, the rules for the transmission, reproduction, translation, destruction of classified information and the conduct of a visit requiring access to classified information shall be settled. The procedure to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information and the rules for bearing costs have been laid down in the Convention. The Convention shall be without prejudice to any other obligations of the Parties under bilateral or multilateral agreements, including any findings and memoranda of understanding which govern the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. I would like to make some substantive comments. On 14 December 2009, the Parliament adopted the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. a law that created the necessary legal basis for the conclusion and application of bilateral secret protection agreements, and thus the elimination of the failure of our country to do so. The Matv. Since its entry into force, after 1 April 2010, a series of contracts have started to be concluded with more than 30 European countries as well as with the United States, which has just come into force in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina for its transposition into domestic law. The conclusion of the contract is justified because of the implementation of the law, the fulfilment of Hungary's international commitments and the need to ensure closer cooperation with the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2023-04-12-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, After the change of regime, Hungary was lagging behind in the development of a single legal and institutional system for the protection of classified information. This legislative lag did not allow our country to conclude security cooperation agreements for the exchange of classified information on a bilateral basis for about two decades. The Parliament adopted a law which, with its entry into force on 1 April 2010, established the necessary legal basis for the conclusion and application of bilateral secret protection agreements, starting from 2010 on the conclusion of bilateral confidentiality agreements. Once these agreements have been concluded with the EU and Balkan countries one by one, Bosnia and Herzegovina is now in line. The Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information with Bosnia and Herzegovina was signed in Vienna on 19 October 2021. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country of great importance to our country, our Hungarian national interest is in the interests of the Western Balkans, and the EU accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina is also in the interest of the European Union as a whole. [[10.50]] Following a 21 percent increase in trade flows between Hungary and Bosnia last year, it has already exceeded EUR 600 million and has reached another record. In addition to the KFOR mission in Kosovo, Hungary also participates in the peace mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a military contingent of about 200 people, where the chief chief of command has traditionally been held by Hungarian officers. The KDNP fraction supports the publication of the Convention between Hungary and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-46	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Further speeches will be held. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2023-04-12-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the spirit of constructivity, I would like to point out that the LMP fraction will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
u2023-04-12-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said. [[Csaba Dömötör: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets will follow until closure. Government referral T/3520. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State of the Cabinet Office, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-04-12-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As you know, the Central Statistical Office conducted a census last year, and the questioners also used tablets for this considerable task, namely 34 500 pieces. As the census was completed, such a number of tablets are not required at the Central Statistical Office, and the intention was to use the remaining tablets for further public purposes after the census. A previous government decision has already stated that the vast majority of the assets, a total of 22,000 tablets, will be allocated to public education institutions, which will determine the scope of other organizations. Our aim is to ensure that the delivery tools are transferred to institutions and organisations where they can continue to be used effectively for everyday work. In this context, the bill provides the basis for the transfer of ten thousand tablets to different organisations and institutions, at the same time identifying the beneficiaries and regulating the procedure for free ownership. On the basis of this, tablets can be transferred to local governments, national governments, churches, public order organisations, health, social and child welfare, child protection, public benefit organisations and public bodies engaged in agricultural economic activities. With support from the institutions, the aim of the bill is to strengthen its role in civil society. For these reasons, we believe that the bill is suitable for supporting our fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-50	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gyula Szeberényi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The T/3520 on the table of this House on the free ownership of individual state-owned assets The purpose of the bill is to regulate the procedure for free ownership. The Hungarian Central Statistical Office has acquired 34 500 tablets for the successful conduct of the 2022 census. The Hungarian Central Statistical Office is able to offer 32,000 copies for further exploitation while maintaining tablets that are intended to be used to perform its own public tasks. Government Resolution 1088/2023 on the effective implementation of the free ownership of infocommunication devices decided to transfer tablets to public education institutions. The bill before this House regulates the procedure for free ownership and allows the KSH to transfer tablets free of charge to the beneficiaries in order to perform their tasks more effectively to the organisations listed by the Secretary of State in his speech. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It can be said that the bill before us contains forward-looking provisions, and that the assets that the HCSO no longer uses are given free access to organisations and institutions where they are most useful, so I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the proposal, in the light of what has been said, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Szeberényi. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Well, indeed, a not so old, perhaps mid-March Ministry of Interior information suggests that 22,000 tablets were to be distributed between different schools. However, these districts, if I read them correctly, are no longer included in the text of the bill, and, well, I may not be far from reality if I say that it is probably because it does not require legislation. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] To hand over these machines to public authorities. Therefore, it is not clear from the current bill that the listed potential beneficiaries will receive all the machines or only those remaining after the districts. In itself, the use of useless tablets in the public interest, I believe, is eligible. However, in my view, the rules for the distribution of tablets are not sufficiently defined in the text of the proposal, as there is no regulation on the conditions under which the distribution will take place, and it is therefore feared that they will decide on the basis of a certain and well-known political aspect, which is not only unacceptable but also constitutionally offensive. The fact that churches and even church legal entities are included among potential beneficiaries is totally unacceptable, even because according to the current Fundamental Law, the state and the church must operate separately in Hungary. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] and the state must remain neutral on world-view issues. Of course, I know that you will, of course, refer to this, too, to the fact that, by means of financial means, whether it be money or property, the public benefit of the churches can be supported once again: it is a public benefit, and thus, in essence, it will also facilitate the implementation of constitutional fundamental rights. However, in my view, this should not extend to the religious activities of the churches. Consequently, the bill is in my view against the law, since it is clear that the provision of tablets can also be used to support the activity of faith. I am also concerned about the fact that asset relief procedures are not expected to be transparent, at least for the time being this seems very much so, and this is not what the government is trying to do, because there is no reference in the bill, for example, to public control in any way. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Tablet! We're talking about a tablet!]] It is obvious that the party of state and, I suppose, you will also figure out that I am thinking of Fidesz-KDNP here, if your political interests so desire, and it seems, in the last ten years, that you have wished to be a supporter of digital culture, while in reality it is more likely to hinder digital education or even public administration. So even if you don't like this, I'm going to use the legitimate suspect lawsuit that in fact the current tablet distribution will serve primarily the usual eye-turning and false propaganda steels that have been experienced thousands of times in the last 13 years and will follow instead of real help, which in this form also discredits almost all the lines of the proposal before us. Thank you very much. [[11.00]]
u2023-04-12-54	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Varga. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, I thought that today we would hear no more serious from DK than that Romania is better at everything than Hungary, because that was the way the speech before the agenda was made in DK. [[Zoltán Varga: Because this is real!]] Zoltán Varga managed to subdue this. We have noted, Congressman, that you would like a tablet. Unfortunately, however, the municipalities, churches and schools will be given first, and if they stay at the end, we may also be happy to help the Member. We understand that this envy is the origin of your speech. Again, my fellow Members, we have heard nothing but an original anti-religious list from DK, as they always do. Yes, my honourable fellow Member, we are proud to support the Church's work, as our churches are present in educational, educational, social and child protection areas, in higher education, in many places in society, and they are doing an amazing job. And we also support their faith life, their faith-life activities, their community-organizing activities, because we believe that this is important and useful in Hungarian society, the Hungarian national community, because the social-building and social-organizing work of churches has been, and is, an important pillar of our national community in the past centuries. The fact that you, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev and Ágnes Vadai, regularly make anti-religious and anti-religious speeches is what we understand, because you are an anti-religious party, and we know that. You will take every opportunity to criticise the public service of churches and their support to the churches. When I read this bill, I thought there might be an important parliamentary unity here. You might think that there was a census every ten years, that for the census it was necessary to obtain these, so that data could be recorded quickly and digitally with the help of the interviewers, and then there would be a lot of tablets that KSH could not use for its daily work. In this respect, we have also modernised the KSH equipment park. But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that there is still no national unity behind this proposal, even though I think it is right for schools, municipalities, national governments, church organisations, civil society organisations engaged in public security, health, social and child welfare activities to receive them, because they can help their work. It is important that digitalisation is progressing in Hungary in the sphere of civil society organisations and in the area of churches and municipalities. That's what this bill helps. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The only truth in his speech was that the tablets to be passed to the schools do not need to be included in the bill, because there the property is transferred from one public body to another public body in this way. I would ask the Member to reconsider his anti-religious position and that this proposal can help in substance. It's a little help, because you might only get one or two tablets to a civil society organization, one or two schools at the end. I think it's a pleasure for people in every constituency in the country to receive these tablets as a help. We will certainly support this bill, and I ask you, all of you, that unless you have such a deep anti-religious spirit as DK, you should support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-56	I welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Charity is a noble thing, the free transfer of tens of thousands of tablets to public institutions and organisations. It is not by accident that the MSZP has previously proposed to hand them over to the poorest settlements in the country, such as their schools, while at the same time providing access to the Internet by the government. However, we are now a little incomprehensible to the bill, since we did not think that a separate law on the scrapping of multi-annual tablets should be adopted, and a fundamental law should be adopted, especially since the main objective of re-use for the purpose of public service was already in a government decision. The question has always been exactly who and when these instruments will be received, but this is still not clear from the proposal, but I hope that Mr Secretary of State will respond to this, because I think it would be important that we all know that. The question really is who really gets these tools. This is also important because until the date of the Government decision, until 30 April, I do not know how the transfer can happen, because the adoption of the law will take place only in May, as planned. If I can get some interpretation in this, I'll thank you. We welcome the government's offer of no-necessary instruments, but we do not understand why this is so damn complicated, because at other times the government decides the fate of hundreds of billions in a resolution by circumventing Parliament. Nevertheless, this is a good cause, and the Hungarian Socialist Party will support it, but I am confident that Mr State Secretary will answer my question. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-04-12-58	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-59	Mr President, Dear House, I think it's a good proposal, and I'll support it. The thing is, there have been various arguments, and I disagree with them, not at all. I'm more concerned about what's not in this proposal. The basic philosophy of putting the remaining digital devices in the best position after a census, I don't think anyone in this room will dispute it. Obviously, there are points of dispute that can be found between who, on what weighting and how to get it delivered. Of the 34 500 IT devices, I understand, 2500 tablets would be kept by the office, and they would obviously be used for meaningful purposes. I wouldn't get involved in the operation of the KSH. I have several times tabled an amendment which will increase its support during the HCSO budget, because I can see that an inflation measurement might be able to fine-tune even the methodology and others. We often say that the Hifi Tower for playing CD has still been included in the inflationary measurement of KSH in recent years, even though it is well known that it does not buy so much, the price of ergo is not particularly increasing, so it is suitable to lower the inflation rate a little bit, not much weight, but if many of these products come together, then this is the case. Overall, I am therefore a great supporter of the HCSO, but I still think that this proposal could be much deeper and could be suitable for much more. I do not understand that at the threshold of the digital age in which we are involved, when every transaction is recorded, so I think that the global space in which we live can, unfortunately, trace every move we make, how it can happen in Hungary that not every Hungarian student, university student or high school student has access to digital tools necessary and suitable for his studies. Here I am thinking that it could be a tangible goal to give a new tablet or e-book reader to every Hungarian schoolteacher at any age in any form. We've published the book! Save the books! Our program, which is practically the second vase. The first point would have been to support publishers with a guaranteed purchasing system to spread out of the new volume of publications needed for the null salvo in the library network the literature or even other genres that can enrich Hungarian culture and the entire space of Hungarian culture through a professional filter. And let's save the books! The second leg of the program deals with the e-book-reader support system, which would enable all Hungarian students to learn, prepare and acquire the skills that cannot be imagined in Hungary's future after receiving the right digital device, i.e. free of charge. I would therefore like to see a proposal and support it with an even better heart, which allows all Hungarian schoolchildren to do so. Secretary of State, I know that if we advertise a free e-book reader or tablet program for college students to receive this tool, then there is a serious concern in certain publishing houses, such as those that deal with the publishing of textbooks in an industrial way. And I don't want to solve this dilemma by eliminating printed textbooks. By the way, I'm a big fan of printed books. I got an e-book reader as a gift, but I'm having a bit of a hard time shooting it. Many of us like to use the printed copy in reading or in studies, we like to highlight the essence, we like to smell the printing press, because it is a feeling of life that cannot be destroyed from Hungary, fortunately. [[11.10]] But I say that the printed retention of textbooks, and otherwise without prejudice to the interests of these great publishers, would still fit in the field of university notes and other auxiliary materials an e-book reading program that would be able to rotate these materials, utilize them, and where otherwise it is not necessary, or everything is already being done in a digitized way to eliminate paper-based constraints. So, in short, textbooks should remain, do not harm the interests of textbook publishers, but next to them you could imagine a tablet program, or a wide distribution of tablets capable of reading e-books, which allows every Hungarian school student, every Hungarian student, to obtain a modern digital device at one age. Obviously, it is much better to do so as soon as possible, and not in the first years of university, because there are requirements in both primary and secondary schools that need these tools more and more, but with a focus on university life, and once again, without prejudice to the interests of print publishers, I see the place for such a program. We also see the budgetary implications here, so the acquisition of KSH is about HUF 1-2 billion. I don't want to underestimate this amount, it's a serious amount, but it's worth calculating the amount of money a national programme would require, and I can see that this would fit a lot into the current budget. So I'm asking you to think about it. Yes, the fact that we are dealing with the useable delivery of April, while the bill has not yet been adopted, has struck us. It may therefore be necessary to set more reasonable deadlines. Overall, it's not just the "Save the Books"! I would like to recommend our program, which is specifically about an e-book reading program, to your attention, but also the second leg of it. I would add that this would also be an unmerciless support for Hungarian publishers in a very difficult situation. He's got a connecting leg. A lot of publishers don't bring out e-books that can be read even on a tablet because it's basically taxed as software. Another suggestion is not to tax as software a literary e-print, e-book. Why is 27 percent of what can otherwise be purchased at a 5% tax burden? I think it would be sensible to standardise these at least at this level, because at the moment a small or medium-sized publisher is simply not worth publishing e-book, because it is faced with a much higher tax burden even at the time of the contract, I think, when it acquires the various royalties, so that small publishers and medium-sized publishers are forced to print out the book concerned in a low number of copies, because demand is seen by all of us and they are trying to scrape the customers to buy it, because it is simply not worth publishing the e-book for them. So the whole area should be handled in packages. To add, the tablet, e-book reader and other programs make sense now. We can't quite see what artificial intelligence in this area is causing. I don't know who's in the room, it's blood-freaking to me when I read about artificial intelligence that in a day and a half, you can write a finished book or even a fantastic work. But the fact is that if we want to support Hungarian students, young people and not just the few tens of thousands of tablets mentioned, but with more serious tools, we can do it now, at this moment, in this budget year. I call on you to do this, so give your opinion to this part of the programme, to extend the proposal before us, which, by the way, is basically, once again, I can support, and I think it is in the right direction. I have no negative feelings about ecclesiastical institutions, as has just been said, but I have to say that there would be much more room for budgetary manoeuvre and much more for the Hungarian future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2023-04-12-60	Dávid Dócs, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-61	Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that my fellow Members who spoke before me were concerned about everything on the subject, so that it would be a bit more dissecting. We believe that it is an essential condition for the transfer of modern knowledge to keep pace with technological progress everywhere, and we believe that this material assistance is indeed a great help to socially active groups in addition to the development of our children's educational institutions in this direction. As my fellow Member, who spoke before me, however, it would be worth considering that a programme of this kind of national size could be launched by the Hungarian age, because I think that our children's useful knowledge should be increased by all means. However, we are talking about the distribution of tablets for the census. I think that this bill serves a noble purpose, which is why, as a constructive party, the Mi Hazank Movement never sees who submitted this proposal, but we always see it in the interests of the Hungarian people, the interests of the Hungarian social groups, and therefore we consider this bill to be suitable for support. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-12-62	I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I can also say briefly that the parliamentary group of the LMP will support this proposal. We consider this to be a good measure. There is one thing that has been said here in the debate, and I would therefore like to expressly point out that we do not have any problem at all with the support of faith, and we do not have a problem with supporting churches in the performance of their important tasks. However, I would add that I have a lot of problems with the fact that, if we say, a politician who proudly proclaims Christianity, let us say here in Parliament, lies on any subject. I would just like to note that it is very important to support the functioning of the churches, to support the life of faith, but as a Christian, I am also a believer to follow the guidelines that we all consider important in accordance with our church. However, let me ask you a short question, Mr Secretary, which is only partly related to the bill. The title of the bill is to give some state-owned assets free ownership, and I repeat, this proposal will be specifically supported by us. But there has been news in the past week or two that came from the ministry of your ministry, not from the Ministry of János Lázár, which aims, according to a bill which, by the way, is the existence of Minister Gulyás in the government, so his departure has been confirmed by the government, that 12 renovated state-owned castles would be handed over equally free of charge or property management. Is Vane any official information within the government that you really want to do this, that you want to submit it to the Parliament, that you want to submit it? Would the government really want to go in a direction where they want to give these wonderful values, such as our national prides, parts of our built heritage into private property free of charge? So should we be afraid that this idea, which we believe to have come out of the ministry of John Lazarus, will gain the government's support at such a level that it arrives before Parliament as a bill from that government? I put it as a question. Until I have an answer to this, I would not like to go forward to classify this second proposal, the idea of János Lázár, in its content, but I hope that we will get an answer from the Secretary of State. Thank you, Madam President.
u2023-04-12-64	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-65	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Поштованa госпо.о председнице! Поштовани прламенту! http://ec.europa.eu/index.int/index_en.int/index_en.htm Madam President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and myself, I welcome you. As a spokesperson requested by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is T/3520 on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets. On 11 April 2023, the Council discussed the proposal for a regulation. The bill submitted is a pleasure because it gives us the opportunity to hand over free tablets to national ethnic authorities, among others, during the census. We hope that out of the 32,000 tablets to be used, there will also be a sufficient number of national governments, as it would be a great help to improve IT provision. Today, workers, in any sector, must not lack IT tools in their task. The same is true of students, because these tools are essential for gaining knowledge. Many people who are involved in the task of nationality are pleased with new and modern tablets, thus raising the quality of work or other tasks. [[11.20]] We are also pleased that it is now natural that the government has not forgotten the nationalities living in Hungary in the course of further exploitation of tablets. National minority self-governments spend a great deal of energy on ensuring the various forms of nationality education and education, the completion of ethnic art, and the collection and preservation of legacy memories, thereby helping the survival and survival of nationality in our country. In addition to these tasks, it is natural to enjoy accessing these computer devices free of charge and hope to benefit from them in proportion. Modern computing is now essential for an appropriate and expected level of task. The 2022 census was conducted entirely electronically, thanks to which the tablets used for the recording of data will be handed over to the statutory organizations for further useful use. We hope that electronic data collection will facilitate the rapid processing of data, which is very important due to the election of the national government next year. It is no secret that nationalities in Hungary are waiting for the data collected during the census to have at present the figures and territorial distribution of those belonging to nationalities. These results will provide a reliable basis for preparing the social decisions of individual municipalities. The figures and territorial distribution of persons belonging to nationality provide basic information on the organisation and establishment of the local government of nationality. For nationalities in Hungary, it is important to know where and how many people belong to a national community. According to the legislation in force, the election of representatives of local minority self-governments should be made if, on the basis of the assessment of the degree of self-organization of the nationality concerned and its nationality in the municipality, the national self-administration of the national community of the municipality is deemed necessary. In addition, the election of representatives of local minority self-governments should be made even if the number of persons belonging to the national minority in the municipality reaches 25 persons per nationality, according to the aggregated data of the last census on issues relating to membership of the national minority, and the local government in the municipality operates. The election of the representatives of national minority self-governments will also take place much earlier than before, so the early acquisition of the total number of people belonging to nationality has become a very urgent issue. Without this knowledge, national minority self-government elections cannot be planned, so we ask the President of the HCSO to do everything possible to get to know the aggregated series of data on nationality data as soon as possible. In view of this, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is T/3520 on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets. Recommends adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2023-04-12-66	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] He came forward on a case-by-case basis... [[Zoltán Varga: Excuse me, not in order.]] I'm sorry. Congressman Zoltán Varga asked for a normal word. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2023-04-12-67	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry, I pushed the wrong button. I think we need to clear a few things up. Obviously, I have seen the intention of Congressman Nacsa, because whatever statement, sentence, word in which the church or religion is in, do not be angry, he jumps like a hungry hen on corn, even though there was no negative sign of church or religion in what I said a few minutes ago. Yes, I also believe that what the Member says is important, and that a parliamentary unity should finally come to pass. And I would like to open a parentheses here, because it is quite clear that if we look at how Hungarian public life, public education and digitalisation stand today, then we must state that we do not have a very high position in the European ranking; there are a lot of neighbouring former socialist countries ahead of us, which were much worse than they had at the turn of the millennium. Now I don't want to prejudicate here, and I don't want to make a parallel to the fact that we know very well what the Prime Minister of Hungary's relationship is like with smart devices, or that he bragged for a very long time that he doesn't use smartphones or internet. [[Csaba Dömötör: Are you serious? Who told you that?]] However, thousands, tens of thousands of young students do not have access to the benefits of the Internet, but in many cases not even to normal transport or fixed drinking water. So if you look at the fact that these tablets are needed by the Hungarian society or public education, you should clearly say that yes, it is very, very much necessary, and not just this. Here I must confirm the speech of Jobbik's representative: it is indeed necessary that every schoolboy, as he begins his school, is given the opportunity, regardless of what school he is studying now, or where he lives because of fate, in a tiny small village or in a big city, perhaps in the capital, to use the same tools under the same conditions, whether the Internet or the tablet. We see that, unfortunately, this is not the case, and we see that many do not have access to basic IT tools and knowledge, so that would be really important in this respect. But the fact that the churches are coming again in this case, I think it is not a good direction, Congressman or a respected government. Just because I see it, and I would close the parentheses here, and I would say that yes, an important parliamentary unity would be needed in order for religion and faith to remain everyone's innermost cause; it is his job to think about the world, believe in God or not, if he believes, and then he is a member of what denomination. The fact that you use churches, religion and faith as a means of achieving your own political goals is unacceptable. So, yes, we also say that we need to support as many young children as possible, as many schools as possible, as many organisations as possible to get access to these machines, not just these machines, but as many such machines as possible, and that everyone should have the opportunity to start from the same starting point in life, not just the privileged children of rich families. This opportunity must be given, and not to think about how to twist a opposition Member's otherwise perfectly well-meaning words about finally having a consensus that the churches should be in their rightful place in this story, and not using them as a means, and in many cases not to abuse it, and not to brag about it. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-12-68	Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to speak again. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, if you'd like to respond. [[On the signal of Csaba Dömötör:]] He indicated that he wished to respond to what was said in the debate, so I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-69	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, and thank you for your speeches, ladies and gentlemen. I am trying to respond to a few things, first of all, what the bill before us is about. Earlier, a government decree stated that 22,000 tablets reach public education institutions, which is no longer required to be dealt with in this bill. This means that nearly 70 percent and 68 percent of these instruments reach public education institutions. The deadline mentioned by one of my fellow Members on 30 April refers to these tablets to be sent to public education institutions. If the decision is taken, the bill will be passed, and KSH will try to deliver the remaining 10,000 tablets to the organisations concerned as soon as possible. [[11.30]] As far as KSH is concerned, the methodology in which KSH works is largely regulated by international procedures. So I would ask my fellow Members to take this into account whenever they have proposals on the procedure and methodology. As far as the case of castles not directly linked to this is concerned, indeed, in no way is the question of the castles in the present bill, but if it has already been raised, I would like to point out that the government has renovated Hungary's castles and castles in the order of magnitude which has not been seen since the change of regime. When he did so, not only were heritage and culture protection aspects involved, but also employment protection and job creation aspects. All I can tell you is that the government and the Ministry of Justice are constantly examining how, even in this exceptional situation, these resources and investments could be made in the most cost-effective way possible. No decision has been made in this case. I can see that all kinds of articles are being created, but please consider what the Ministry provides as official information rather than as a guide. The Ministry concerned examines how to involve additional resources in the management of these renovated institutions in such a way that the public function of the monuments remains unchanged and these institutions continue to benefit the public. As far as public education is concerned, I would like to stress in particular that this bill only concerns part of these digital development instruments and the use of digital tools. What kind of digital developments are still taking place in public education is not affected by this bill, but if it has already been raised, I would like to say here that there have been bandwidth expansions in thousands of institutions or that the Wi-Fi network has been built. More than 100,000 digital devices have reached schools, including desktop computers, laptops, and tablets. And from the spring of 2022, half a million notebooks were distributed between 5-12 grade students and educators. In view of the proposal that different digital tools should be provided to all students, I would suggest one thing to all of us that before such digital development is decided, we should always listen to teachers, because I do not see the debate over how digital tools can be included in the curriculum in the most efficient way possible. There is a debate on how digital tools develop a high degree of dependence among students, how they influence concentration capacity; there is a debate on how the material that is considered important, such as compulsory reading, can be or can be delivered to students through digital devices. There is also a rather intensive, unfinished debate on mobile use. So I suggest to ourselves that, before we make any specific proposals, we should definitely listen to the voices and opinions of teachers, after all, they have the most experience of how digital tools can be integrated into the curriculum. Thanks to the feedback and comments, I conclude that a large majority of Members consider this bill to be worthy of support, which will allow these instruments to reach those concerned as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-12-70	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/3526. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Energy, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-04-12-71	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, More than 70 percent of the Earth's surface is covered with water. Life on earth began in the water, so it is hardly surprising that all living things on the blue planet need water. Water equals life. Unfortunately, in most parts of the world, the safety of water supply and the availability of good quality drinking water are not natural, so we Hungarians can be especially grateful that in our country the movement by which we open the tap and drink a glass of good quality water is completely natural. Clean water is our national treasure; protecting our environment and protecting our created world is extremely important for all of us. It is in our national interest to preserve and improve the state of our rivers, lakes and groundwater resources, as we must also provide this essential natural treasure for the next generation. Hungary has enough water; the availability of public drinking water supply is close to 100% at municipal level. The Hungarian people are provided with clean drinking water, but of course it doesn't matter how we treat this natural treasure. The government aims to protect national water resources, to make effective use of them and to ensure good quality water supply. Our aim is to ensure that all Hungarians have clean and healthy drinking water. The government is constantly monitoring current problems in the water utility service sector requiring government intervention; it is deciding on the necessary measures on the basis of professional considerations to address them. This series of decisions includes the 2011 CCIX on water utility services to be presented to this House. amendment of the law. The proposed amendment adds additional elements and clarifies and rationalises the regulation at certain points. Based on the experience gained in the application of public law, it has become necessary to clarify, supplement and restructure the norm in several places along the following main lines. Currently, the rules of supervision of the Act only apply to water utility providers, but in practice the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office also carries out a significant number of controls among those responsible for care. The proposal applies a clarification regime for the conduct of checks. The amendment would also standardise the names in the field of target testing and introduce three types of controls, taking into account the limited powers of those responsible for care: target control, thematic control and follow-up. In view of the fact that an appeal is only granted against a decision, it is desirable that all checks be concluded by a decision in the future. In addition, the purpose of the amendment is to avoid double payment by the person responsible for the supply for the system-independent elements refurbished from the water utility development contribution of the given water utility system, and therefore, in the event of termination of the operating contract, the provider may offer the independent water utility element owned by the system at a net value not exceeding book value to the person responsible for the supply in writing, provided that it has been renovated at the expense of the water utility development contribution. A further amendment is that in the event of termination of operating contracts by mutual agreement, lighter rules will be laid down as it is unjustified to maintain an eight-month period; instead, four months will be set. It is also necessary to amend the Water Utility Act in order to ensure the availability of data relating to the area of supply, including the fulfilment of the Office's duty to propose a fee, even after the water utility provider's authorisation to be withdrawn. [[11.40]] It is also necessary to amend that, if a transfer contract is concluded after the delivery price established by the Minister, it is proposed to introduce an administrative procedure, similar to the transitional fee, which ensures the level of the transfer price until the Ministerial Decree is amended. In view of the fact that the water utility development contribution is essentially a right of property, it is therefore necessary to lay down the basic provisions at the level of law allowing the transfer or transfer of the quota obtained. In order to enable each water utility provider to carry out the necessary procedures in the most efficient and appropriate way, it is recommended that detailed rules be laid down at the level of a business regulation. In addition to the measures taken in recent years, the modernisation of networks is one of the most important tasks for the water utility sector. In order to ensure the sustainable functioning of the sector and the quality of water supply, a national water utility service strategy has been developed with the involvement of stakeholders in the sector, providing short- and long-term solutions to the sector's challenges. As a result of its developments, a modern, reasonable-sized and energy-efficient water utility network can be created that allows for resource-efficient and sustainable operation that is beneficial to the environment and the Hungarian population. In particular, I would like to mention that it was possible for the municipalities in difficulty and the water utility providers owned by them to participate voluntarily in a National Waterworks Ltd. on 13 June 2021. in a coordinated integration process. This allowed for the smooth provision of care and the long-term operation and development of these systems everywhere. From August 2022, the Government will grant State aid to water utility providers participating in the integration programme in order to maintain security of supply up to their losses in 2022. Local governments that do not wish to join integration can also benefit from state aid. The government's commitment to the development and modernisation of high-quality drinking water services is indicated by the fact that the Ministry of Energy has created an independent water utility sector State Secretary, whose priority, in addition to the regulation and supervision of water utility services, is to cooperate with important stakeholders in the sector. To sum up, we are extremely fortunate to have clean drinking water among the unparalleled natural treasures of our country. We Hungarians can be especially grateful that Hungary has one of the most important basic conditions for life. It is therefore all our responsibility to deal with our supplies. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of this proposal on the amendment of the water utility law by their contributions, professional proposals and votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-12-72	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I will address Gyula Szeberényi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-73	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The government is committed to developing and modernising high quality drinking water. Our common goal is to ensure that all Hungarians have clean and healthy drinking water. With the entry into force of the Water Utilities Act, the integration of the sector has begun, which has made the operation of the system more transparent, more cost-effective, and service pricing has also become regulated. Special attention will be paid to keeping and expanding the workforce, constantly addressing the situation of water utilities and how these providers can be helped to operate. In recent years, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the successor of which is the Ministry of Energy, has prepared a national water utility service strategy with the involvement of stakeholders in the sector in order to solve problems in the water utility sector. The strategy aims to remedy the problems of the entire water utility sector in the short term and in the long term. As part of this process, the 2011 CCIX on water utility services became necessary. amendment of the law. Based on the experience gained during the application of the law by the authorities, it was necessary to clarify and supplement the norm in several places. The amendment concerns the rules on the supervision of the law, as they apply only to water utility providers under the current provisions, but in practice the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office also carries out a significant number of controls on those responsible for the supply. In view of this, it is necessary to extend the scope of existing and proven control rules to control those responsible for care. The amendment also brings together the names for the current target examination and introduces three types of checks, taking into account the limited powers of those responsible for care, as Mr State Secretary mentioned: target control, subject control and follow-up. In view of the fact that the legislation on the closure of controls and the determination of the consequences has lost its coherence as a result of the repeated amendment of the law, it is therefore necessary to reword the entire section in order to increase clarity and applicability. According to the current scheme of the Act, the Office shall conclude any inspection which reveals an infringement with a draft minutes, to which the audited body may comment. The observations shall be considered in the final minutes in which the data subject is either called upon to terminate the infringement or, on the basis of the findings of the minutes, an official procedure shall be initiated, which shall be closed by a decision in which a fine is typically imposed. This scheme does not seem necessary to maintain the scope of thematic and target audits that have been proven during the overall controls, but which cover the narrower subject matter. The reason for this is that, in general, there is no further clarification of the facts in the official proceedings, so the decision is, in fact, a repetition of the final minutes. In view of the fact that the possibility of redress is granted only against the decision, it is therefore desirable that all checks be concluded by a decision in the future. Thus, if the Office finds, in the course of the subject-checking, target-checking or after-control, that the body subject to control has infringed the requirements of the legislation or of the official decision, it shall send the audit report to the audited body within 8 days of the closure of the inspection. The audited body may comment on the audit report within 15 days of receipt. The observations shall be assessed by the Office in the course of the official procedure for determining the consequences and shall give particular reasons for the observations rejected in the decision closing the procedure. In addition, the Act of 16 December 2020 on the quality of water intended for human consumption, 2020/2184, is added. In order to comply with Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The addition to the network water loss was committed by the Ministry of Energy in the inter-wallet working group established by the transposition of the Directive, given that it will be responsible for sending the report to the Commission by 12 January 2026. It is also necessary to amend the law in order to ensure the availability of data relating to the supply area and, therefore, the fulfilment of the Office's duty to propose a fee, even after the water utility service provider's authorisation to be withdrawn. [[11.50]] In line with the Office's procedures for corporate events under other sectoral legislation, the provisions of the Act concerning the acquisition of influence will also be amended and clarified. On the basis of the amendment, the law will be repealed, inter alia, by Article 26 of the Act. Paragraph (2). The repeal is justified by the fact that Article 2 The concept of development in accordance with paragraph 21 of Section 21 of the Act C of 2000 on Accounting is not identical to those used by Act C of 2000 and, during the course of the investment, it is also understandable that the investment involving the existing water utility system or the new investment, independent of other water utility systems, is being made. In the latter case, the investment would be considered to be the own investment of the water utility provider, i.e. own property, which is contrary to Article 6. Paragraph 1 of this Article. The current provision proposed for cancellation does not address this difference, so that Article 11 does not apply. The conflict with the general rule set out in paragraph 2 of Section 2 cannot be resolved either. Article 62 of the Act is also repealed. Paragraph (2) of the Act, which provides that the budgetary and municipal subsidies granted for the performance of the water utility service are to be taken into account as a reduction factor in the fee of the water utility service. This is explained by the fact that, under the Water Utility Act, the fee payable for the use of the water utility service is to be reimbursed for the justified costs associated with the operation of the water utility. The law is 62. According to § (1) above, fees for the provision of water utilities must encourage safe and at least cost water utility services, improve the efficiency of management, make efficient use of capacity, continuously improve the quality of service, ensure the application of the principle of the conservation of natural resources, take into account the justified costs of continuous and safe water supply and the justified costs of fulfilling environmental obligations, including in particular the justified costs of water base protection. On the basis of the above, it can be seen that the law requires not only full reimbursement of costs as a condition for charging, but also that the fee should encourage improvements in the efficiency of farming. However, where operating State or municipal aid to the water utility provider cannot be taken into account by the Agency when preparing the fee proposal as a reasonable cost, not only these criteria are affected, but a fee may be set that does not cover the legitimate costs of the water utility provider; therefore the water utility provider concerned will continue to rely on it in the future. This contradiction is resolved by the repeal of the said paragraph. In this respect, it is important to point out that the scope of the justified costs and the calculation of them are determined by the Office's methodology, so that the subject matter remains regulated, but not at a normative level, which provides much more flexibility for the Minister of Energy as a fee founder. Ladies and gentlemen, The current bill is CCIX of 2011 on water utility services. amend law to bring it into line with previous amendments to the law, help to implement the minimum cost principle, the principle of efficient management, the principle of the conservation of natural resources and the principle of safe operation, in line with EU directives and objectives. For these reasons, I call for the support of the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-74	It is now up to the lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr Zoltán Varga. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The proposal before us is of particular importance, even because as a Debrecen, I myself experience all the moments of the crazy Orbán plan, that huge, water-destructive battery factories are installed in a mindless manner next to the countless cities of the country, including the border of Debrecen. But we can remember that just a few days ago, on April 6th, Gergely Gulyás at the Government Info said the following, and I would like to quote it precisely:, As is known, the government had previously decided to take over the water utilities, but it was faced with water losses that caused the system to lose money. In some places, losses may be up to 60 percent due to faults in the plumbing system, the average loss nationwide is over 20 percent, and therefore the energy minister Csaba Lantos has been authorised to find solutions to the renovation of the water utility network and to the other problem of price coordination. Well, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Honourable Government. Welcome to Orbánistan. Welcome to reality. They finally realized that the system was losing money, and they finally realized that the plumbing network across the country was like a sieve. But you probably have no idea, or if you do, you will be deeply silent about this, because of the irresponsible economic policy of the government, your government. Due to energy prices, the government's public water charge and public utility tax, rural water utility providers are in a critical situation. For more than ten years of frozen charges, due to the huge extra costs, it is necessary to search for lanterns on the one hand for operators who have not lost their own capital and have not lost their losses, and on the other hand, the network entrusted to them would not be on the brink of total incapacity due to the planned renovations and the lack of regular maintenance. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what the law is about!]] Congressman, if you have any problems, you should either tell the meeting board or press the button. Thank you so much for listening. Let's just run along and see what happened. In 2012, the water tariff was frozen, in 2013, it was still reduced by 10 percent in the year of the crisis, and the utility tax was introduced, the revenues of which are only received by the public service providers from 5 out of 40 operators. Thus, both their incomes have decreased and the burden on water providers has increased, most of which are in municipal treatment, and the municipalities struggling with withdrawal have not been able to make up for the loss since then. The government, of course, did not have to provide this replacement for the capital of its own companies, which exceeded HUF 135 billion during this period; however, local government-owned service providers and municipalities as owners did not receive any support. I thought, when I saw this proposal before us, that local government companies might now receive support, but I had to be disappointed again, because that is clearly not the case. However, the intention is expressed by it: everyone can do it themselves, but do not count on support; only companies where local governments will give their property free of charge to the Hungarian State will receive support. Not only does the Orbán government want water resources from municipalities free of charge, it would also have them pay the delivery expenses. In essence, they must organise their own nationalisation of the water utility associations that the owners of municipalities are obliged to renounce. So the Orbán government has announced rather than aid an integration programme for municipalities, in which they can hand over their water resources to the state, free of charge and smiling, in the event of the energy crisis, in a final bankruptcy situation, perhaps free of the responsibility for supply. Thank you very much, Honourable Government. You know, it's called mafia methods in the happiest half of the world and literature. But that's okay, because, as it turns out now, not only does the state ask for the entire property free of charge, but it will also have the municipal associations to pay for the process of the changeover. After that, it is clear that it is not necessary to say that it is the responsibility and responsibility of the managers of municipal and service companies to inform the owners of the operational difficulties and the risks to the provision of public tasks in every detail. The local government's debt to the service provider will not be released, and it will have to be secured by other sources, as you say, to the municipalities after the transfer of assets. Now another quote follows:. At the beginning it was announced that the state would only take over clean companies, whatever debt it was owed, then it had to be settled first, the municipalities had no way of tricking. You know who said that? Jenő Schmidt, President of the Association of Municipal Local Governments, who was otherwise completely surprised by the involvement of service companies in the integration process, as this means that public utility companies would face their own ownership governments in negotiations on the transfer of assets. He doesn't think there's any apparatus available for the whole process. [[12.00]] Allow me also to state some of the findings of TÖOSZ. About one third of 40 water utilities are therefore the lower one third of the 40 water utility companies, the rural, disadvantaged, small towns and villages operators [[Nacsa Lőrinc: From whom did he inherit?]] they are on the verge of bankruptcy, insolvency is only a matter of months. The middle third only shows some signs of life because they do not perform the necessary maintenance and renovations, so their operating results can show a value around zero. They were found with higher fees and more reserves by the 2013 freeze, and then the 10-percent reduction in overhead costs is the TÖOSZ. In the upper third period, there are typically metropolitan companies. These companies have significantly more favourable features, and previously they were able to pay dividends to the owners. Today, this is a worn - out, minimal profit if they are able to show it, and the reserves have been fully lived up to now. And Jenő Schmidt also reminds the local government leaders that the situation has been determined. For years, mayors who seriously monitor their supply responsibility have sent cry for help to the government in order to restore the financing of drinking water and sewerage services. And by the way, it is typical of the public states, ladies and gentlemen, that the otherwise purely fidesz Schmidt Jenő expressed her hope that the utility assets will at least remain with the state and hope that they will not land with businessmen near the state. Allow me to repeat this sentence once again: Jenő Schmidt hopes that the utility fortune will at least remain with the state and hopes that it will not land with businessmen near the state. This was not said by a opposition politician, but by a specialist close to Fidesz. The frequent pipe breaks, leaking pipes, contaminated drinking water, these problems make people's lives miserable in many settlements in the country. I don't think that's necessary. But not only residents, but also water utility companies with severe resource shortages are hit by the worsening situation year after year. Rapid and concrete steps are needed to avoid further destruction, emphasising the members of the Water Coalition, which was formed by the cooperation of civilians and trade unions. Let me just say a few of your suggestions without the need for completeness: the danger of water supply collapse must be part of the public speech; a water responsible at government level should be designated [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Pointing to Zsolt V. Németh: Sitting there!]] ; real social consultation should be launched; a striped water price is proposed while maintaining the retail price level; it calls for the restructuring of the tax burden on water prices, the provision of state resources for the development of the water utility sector and the increase in wages for workers. I think you're aware of all this. However, the same is said about the replacement of pipes and the timing of the network expansion programme, the financing and the holding of water resources in the Community. We all see otherwise that there is no real and independent representation of water now [[Nacsa Lőrinc V. Németh Zsolt: State Secretary for the water utility sector!]] As the Ministry of Environment and Water ceased in 2010, the paper is now being moved around three wallets in connection with water supply and financing. However, interestingly, the population is pointing not at the government, but mostly at the service provider, and is angry with them, because they do not see that the supply problems are actually caused not by them, but by the government. In addition, the replacement of a pipe is not a spectacular success, we must admit, since, as one of the experts said at the conference, tape cannot be cut underground. And what we can see very well is that the government points to the EU and expects a solution from it, although EU funding for maintenance and operating costs is currently prohibited by EU regulation. And, well, apparently, the situation doesn't change, you make the papers, but in fact, the water supply is getting worse. And right now, we don't see a way out, except in a change of government. Thank you for listening.
u2023-04-12-76	Now, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Lőrinc Nacsa. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-77	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, This is difficult for Zoltán Varga, who does not bother to see who the rapporteur is: State Secretary responsible for the water utility sector. So that he wasn't responsible for the area, he managed to say that three times in 12 minutes. Sometimes it is worth reading the press and the news beyond the Western Light, and then you will learn that a secretary of state has been appointed by the Prime Minister at the Ministry of Energy in the person of Zsolt V. Németh, who is responsible for the situation of the water utility sector, the improvement of the water utility sector, the improvements and the problems that you have raised in part are found for treatment and solutions. It therefore discredits even the substantial part of its speech, in which it raises real problems if it denies such facts from the public. I mean, Congressman, we have been able to hear from you every week for the last four to five or six years that there is only one month left before all the municipalities fail, and all the municipalities are about to go bankrupt, and you will soon be unable to pay your bills. He said that in 2013, when there were lucky municipalities that were in a good position. But why were they in such a situation? Because we saved them from 1450 billion forints of debt after the change of government, in 2011 and 2012 we took over 1450 billion forints of debt from the municipalities. And where did this debt come from? From you, my honourable fellow Member. The fact is that the Gyurcsány government and the Bajnai government have continuously given the tasks to the municipalities, but have not added funding. So if we ask when the municipalities had the real bleeding and the worst situation, it was between 2006 and 2010, when the Prime Minister was called Ferenc Gyurcsány, and the Prime Minister was called Gordon Bajnai. You encouraged the municipalities, your Minister of Local Government encouraged the municipalities to take out loans to operate, feel free to take on because they did not receive state aid for their growing tasks. It was not task-based support, honourable Member. Those who were city leaders at the time, or who were local representatives, can confirm to you; ask them, honourable Member, what position they were in. Ask Ferenc Gyurcsány, your leader and mentor, and I don't know why you, Feri, did this to the municipalities, why you put them in such a difficult position, why you thought they could be knocked down by dust. The fact is, my honourable fellow Member, that is why we needed to talk about an unmerciful large sum of HUF 1450 billion of debt from the local authorities, so that they could come straight, maybe borrow for improvements; so that they could secure the EU and Hungary's applications; so that they could build an extra kindergarten, so that families could start to grow, and so on and so on. This has been started since 2013, honourable Member. And to deny reality, I think it's always wrong in politics, and it's worth it if we're on the basis of facts and numbers, and we're faced with it. It's the law. I would also like to address a sentence to Mr Keresztes before his speech: we will not and we have not said it, so I would ask him to try to shoot in his speech that this law will solve all problems in the water utility network. We didn't say that, and we're not saying that. Therefore, do not treat the bill or his speech in this way, so that there can be answers and solutions to everything and everything here. This is an important step forward in the area of regulation and control, since we know precisely that Hungary is a water power; one of our most important common national treasures is clean, human-eating, high-quality drinking water. Ensuring access to drinking water in Hungary is a fundamental right, which is included in our Fundamental Law. Access to drinking water is the most fundamental function of life, which the state must guarantee. Water management and water utility services are thus of particular importance from a national strategic point of view. In everyday life, it is completely natural for us to open taps in Hungary's settlements, in our homes, and to have access to drinking water of edible quality, which is not universal anywhere in Europe. For this reason, since 2010, the national Christian Democratic Government has given particular importance to the Hungarian national ownership of public utilities, especially waterworks, which are extremely important from a national strategic point of view. The 2011 CIX on water utility services. In the case of law, on the basis of the experience gained during the application of the law by the authorities, it is now necessary to clarify, supplement and restructure the norm in several places. The current supervisory regulation only applies to water utility providers, but in practice the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office also carries out a significant number of controls. The current amendment would introduce three types of controls, target control, thematic control and follow-up. [[12.10]] It also rewords the rules on the closure of controls and the determination of the consequences in order to increase clarity and applicability. The bill also amends the practice of closing checks, given that the possibility of redress is only granted against the decision, so it is desirable that all checks be concluded by decision in the future. This will increase legal certainty and a clear, predictable procedure for both the control and the audit. However, there is still a great deal to be done in relation to the maintenance and modernisation work of water utilities. When Fidesz-KDNP took over the government in 2010, the Hungarian water utility system had been amortised for almost four decades. Before 2010, the water utility sector was characterised by a fragmented operator structure. In 2010, nearly 400 organisations provided drinking water services and sewage treatment in Hungary. This has led to opaque relations in the sector. Let's be honest with each other that it has not helped the water utility sector either because Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left-wing governments privatized nearly 200 previously owned and largely profitable public companies, companies of national strategic importance and utilities to their policy friends and foreign clients. Remember, for example, that Gábor Demszky, former mayor of Budapest, who was a former Mayor of SZDSZ, gave the Metropolitan Waterworks and the Metropolitan Channelry Works into foreign property in 1997; in a cynical way, Gábor Demszky called it a very good business at that time. The Metropolitan Waterworks with more than 150 years of history and experience, which served two million consumers with drinking water daily, were bought back by the capital in 2012 under the leadership of Mayor István Tarlós, and has been owned again by the Municipality of Budapest. We hope that the spiritual heirs of the SZDSZ, the Gergelys of Christmas, will not strive to sell again the water utilities of the capital, as you did in 1997. Progress has also been made in recent years on the situation of water utilities. In recent years, the government has done a great deal to ensure that drinking water and sanitation services are available to all Hungarian households. Between 2018 and 2020, the government supported the reconstruction of water utilities with HUF 4.5 billion and efficiency-enhancing improvements with HUF 3.5 billion in 19. In November 2020, National Vízművek Zrt. was established, which exercises the ownership rights and obligations of the State over state-owned water utility providers and water utility systems. The government's national water utility public service strategy has also been developed to address the problems in the water utility service sector. The strategy aims to remedy the problems of the entire water utility sector in the short, medium and long term, which has also taken into account the proposals of the stakeholders in the sector. We have a lot of work to do in this area. Our aim is to ensure sustainable water supply. The current bill takes a step in this direction, in particular in areas of supervision, regulation and control, and the KDNP fraction will therefore support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-12-78	Mr Zita Gurmai, lead speaker for the group of the MSZP, is next. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-79	Madam President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The most important systemic innovation of the proposal is the establishment of the official control of those responsible for care by MEKH. The person responsible for the care, who is also the owner of the water utility system, is, in principle, the local government, exceptionally the State. It can be assumed that the purpose of the amendment is not to control the public body exercising its rights in charge of care, but rather to place local authorities under MEKH control. In the case of the existence of adequate conditions for the operation of the water utility service, the imposition of official controls may be justified. However, the current reality is that the conditions for financing the maintenance of the water utility service are not given. Due to the freezing of water and sewer charges for a decade, the continuing deterioration of money and the dramatic increase in energy prices in recent years, the fees collected do not cover the investments needed to maintain the network, but are hardly sufficient to finance the daily operation of the service. For this reason, the majority of municipalities with a lack of resources are trying to maintain the service beyond their powers. Instead of compensating for the loss caused by the freezing of water fees, the government wants to force financially impossible municipalities to nationalise water utilities. The government has repeatedly made it clear that it will not provide assistance to the municipalities responsible for supply. It offered municipalities a single escape route, a voluntary transfer of water utilities, to relieve them of the legal and financial burden of supply liability. Despite full-open government pressure, the majority of municipalities have refused to hand over their public works so far. The experience of the last ten years is that the quality of nationalised public services has been reduced. In the case of water utilities, there is absolutely no efficient public service and institutional system capable of guaranteeing the smooth maintenance of the service. The provision of drinking water and sewerage is a critical infrastructure that is not risked by a city head responsible for its functioning. The government is still not willing to relieve the burden of municipalities in any way, while it is aware that, under the current circumstances, the obligation of supply liability cannot be fully complied with. Under these circumstances, there is strong suspicion that, by requiring the public authorities to control those responsible for care, the government intends to create a new instrument to put under pressure the municipalities that have refused to transfer water utilities so far. The Vkstv. In principle, its provisions guarantee the financing of the maintenance of water utility services. In practice, however, these rules do not apply, because Vkstv. Despite its explicit provision, the MEKH and the Minister still did not provide for the fixing of fees. The Vkstv. 76. Pursuant to paragraph 7 of § 7, the MEKH should have proposed the rate of the fees for the first time by 15 October 2014. However, to date, fees have not been established. The proposal removes this transitional provision from Vksztv. without setting a new deadline. The proposal deletes Vkstv. the only provision which indicates that the State is also providing support for the water utility service is Vkstv. 62. The second line of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act shall be taken into account as a reduction factor in the fee of the water utility service, the budgetary and municipal subsidies provided for the performance of the water utility service to compensate for the costs. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, It is to be welcomed that the proposal integrates the provisions of the relevant EU directive into Vkstv. As the investments needed to maintain the water utility network have not been carried out in the last ten years, it is particularly important for Hungary to examine the extent of network and physical water loss and to develop the necessary measures to reduce water loss. In addition, the proposal is a number of Vkstv. it contains a provision to facilitate its application, which are basically eligible. However, if we look at the current reality, as I have said, I do not see the conditions for financing the maintenance of the water utility service as appropriate. As I indicated, because of the freezing of water and sewer charges for a decade and, of course, the continuing deterioration of money, the dramatic increase in energy prices in recent years, the fees collected do not cover the investments needed to maintain the network, but are hardly sufficient to finance the daily operation of the service. And we know that I also indicated that there is a lack of resources in the municipalities and that they are trying to maintain the service beyond effort. So in any case, I believe that the government should compensate for the loss of water fees. Therefore, with this in mind, the adoption of the bill with unchanged content, despite its many positive elements, is unfortunately not eligible. Thank you for listening.
u2023-04-12-80	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Róbert Hondas. I give you the floor, please. [[12.20]]
u2023-04-12-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A lot has been said by the speakers before me. I do not want to repeat anyone, but only partially reflect on you as rapporteur and on what has been said so far. I would like to start by saying, first of all, that it is to be welcomed that this important area has a government responsibility, because I think that, like education, health and many other areas, we are obviously talking about separate and different things, but that it is very important to have a public and governmental responsibility for such an area. The question arises as to why this has not been given particular attention in the last 10, 12 or even 13 years, because if the deterioration of the system and the deterioration of quality were evident and visible to the municipalities and the population, then I think it should have been shown at government level. However, as much as the appointment of the Secretary of State is to be welcomed, I think it may also be ominous if we look at the processes that have been launched in the past six months in connection with the public takeover of water utility providers; it is not a purchase, but an irresistible offer to the municipalities, in which they were not asked to sell to the State, but they said that the municipality should make provision that it will be subject to state reservations from now on. The Secretary of State started his expo by starting from a distance from the blue planet, which I would like to confirm in terms of the fact that I think this approach is right, because we are really talking about the fundamental element of life, and as long as there is water, there is life, so we must pay particular attention to this. He said it was a national treasure and that the government has been monitoring and monitoring the situation of this system. I can and can agree with the fact that we are talking about our national treasure, as I have already said, but by keeping an eye on it over the past period, to put it mildly. Why am I saying no? Allow me not only to make a sound and to speak in the air, but also to support what I have to say with a few facts. In 2020, so I turned to the Hungarian Parliament for the first time in almost three years about water utility services. I asked that, in order for the municipalities, which can maintain and maintain the system of both water and sewage networks due to the system charges returned to them, this whole system will be reviewed because, by the way, although the theory is good or good, the practice does not show this. It doesn't show that because the proportions should be shifted. They can spend much more on the sewage network at present, say, than on the water network, by the way, the sewage network is a younger system, and the water network is, unfortunately, an outdated, ageing system in many parts of the country. At that time, two and a half or three years ago, the Economic Committee unanimously voted against it, taking into account and looking down on the pro-government members, by saying that, by the way, although they agree with what I said, they want not only one segment of this system, but the whole system and a strategy to be developed. Well, three years have passed since then, and perhaps Minister Gergely Gulyás said that he would try to implement this strategy until 2026, so that, by the way, only 13 years have passed from your government, let us say, and let this system be destroyed. It is safe to say that they have let it go to ruin, considering that about a quarter of the drinking water is draining from the current system. So it doesn't achieve the desired effect and targets, so that in many cases water... otherwise we are talking about a treasure that is worth more than gold in many parts of the world. We have, and indeed, as the Secretary of State has said, our national treasure, then we should have done everything we can to achieve this. According to surveys from a few years ago, we are talking about HUF 3000 billion, which is intended to maintain the system and maintain this system. So we're talking about a huge amount of money just to show you what amount we're talking about, like private pension funds, about the amount we're talking about, that's what water utility providers need to do to get the network in order, so that it can provide both water supply and sewage disposal. I think this is not a game, so this must happen as soon as possible. But why did we get there anyway, that we were talking about such an amount, and that there was no continuous maintenance and network development. 10-11 years ago, the utility tax was introduced, so as many meters as the system, then the service provider had to pay a tax. This showed, by the way, the burden on the maintainer. If, last autumn, you have transferred or otherwise retained the local government figures, we look at who decided to do so and who decided, then it is clear from this that the municipalities, the municipalities which, although having a large administrative area, but having a low population density, have been loss-making to them, so they have been handed over. They handed it over because they said that we would rather hand it over, that this service should be provided, and he doesn't know it, he doesn't know it very well, and he won't be able to provide it in the future; but big cities have decided to keep it in their own hands. Here I see the danger of this bill, by the way. Although many municipalities have decided to hand over their services to the State, a number of municipalities have said that they are otherwise able to operate in a profitable manner and do not agree with the kind of nationalisation that the State will take over the service free of charge and in exchange for payment, but not just the service, but its assets without any consideration, and from then on they will operate this system; no, the municipality kept it with it. What I see is that in this bill, the goals are... how did you put it? The control and the search for responsibility part has a target check, but also a follow-up check, and the sanctions that may be imposed on the service provider, the maintenance service provider concerned, may otherwise result in a decision to hand this system over to the State. Well, as I said, I've already asked you two and a half years ago to deal with this issue, and you missed it. Shortly thereafter, I turned to Minister Palkovics, in order to give an answer, so that, if the Committee on Economic Affairs has already voted off and said that they are not simply trying to fix a segment, but to do the whole thing, then when this is expected. One last thought in relation to their takeover of state property last autumn and their attempted takeover of state property. The Committee on Economic Affairs, but it is also possible that the Committee on Budgets has discussed this, yes, the Committee on Budgets, when I asked for it, and I submitted a proposal for a resolution that the Parliament should decide to do so, and in this we should also have partners, ladies and gentlemen of the honourable Government, to declare the water fortune, as the Secretary of State has said, a national treasure. Let us declare it as a national treasure in such a way that I have tabled a proposal for a decision so that we can agree jointly that it cannot be privatised, sold in private hands, sold to foreign or domestic individuals, or even to concessions. I do not agree with the nationalisation, the nationalisation of this area, but if it escapes the municipalities and goes to the state, then it should be the state, but not the individual's. Why did I bring this up in this area? On the one hand, because we are talking about a national treasure, and on the other hand, because we have seen bad examples, whether in relation to the concession of universities or motorways, a number of such areas could be said. [[12.30]] Then I was told that you are the guarantee of the politicalization and attitude of the last 13 years that this remains in the hands of the state and Hungary. I said, "Well, because of the policy of the last few years, I would ask you to get some legal protection, if necessary, constitutional protection. And I would also like to point out to the Secretary of State that I think it is not from the devil that if we call something our national treasure, it should be given constitutional protection. I think that there is no representative in the Hungarian Parliament who would vote against, say, water and water protection. I would know something, and I would be among those who, when it comes to the question of water, are we going to give it to ourselves: let's not give it to ourselves, let's give it constitutional protection. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to this fact that I would like to ask you to work out in the Ministry or in your Secretary of State that water remains our national treasure, to remain in private hands. [[Sic!]] , do whatever you can to ensure that the service reaches as many people as possible in the best and appropriate capacity. If this effort to improve quality in this bill is to be supported, of course; the fact that it is in public hands and then, perhaps, in some form, in private hands, is not. It would be really comforting if he got constitutional protection. Thank you very much, Madam President.
u2023-04-12-82	The lead speaker of the Group of our countries, Mr Dócs, is next. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-04-12-83	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I am trying to approach things from a slightly different point of view compared to my fellow Members before me, and perhaps it is worth starting with the fact that one of the basic conditions or pillars of the European Union's water policy was the adoption and implementation of the Water Framework Directive, which would have imposed an obligation on our country by 2015; this has not been completed to this day, and the bad news is that this must be done by 2027; but it looks to me now that we are at war with this task as well. During the last decades, there have been reports of dangerous water shortages, vanishing lakes, sewage disposal problems, ageing infrastructure and sewage disposal and water pollution, which is a cause for concern. Today it has become clear, known and accepted that water is a strategic resource, limited, vulnerable and of significant social and economic value. In 2022, our country faced a long-awaited drought, which left the people and families living there without water in several settlements, such as Solymár, Pest County, for days. This period has also demonstrated that our country is constantly at a step disadvantage in dealing with changing climate situations, and unfortunately, it also looks like accessible water supply. The UN General Assembly resolution of 28 July 2010 recognises as a fundamental human right the right to safe, clean drinking water and appropriate hygiene conditions, and this is recognised by our Fundamental Law XX. This adopted UN document also calls on States and international organisations to provide financial resources and expand existing capacities for this purpose, as we see, and our country has plenty to develop in this area as well. However, it is important to point out that the bill damages municipal property, and perhaps this is the most worrying segment of this entire bill. Instead of taking it away, the state should provide resources for continuous maintenance and expansion of user numbers, as the water supply of some 200,000 people is still unknown in Hungary. There are also unattended areas, mainly outskirts, enclosed gardens and farmhouses, resort areas. In the organisation of the public service, sectoral expectations are necessarily associated with territorial aspects even in the most centralised states, as the deployment of infrastructure and the provision of public services affect the whole settlement network and is carried out in space. The annual net revenue of the water utility service sector is HUF 255 billion. Until 2012, industry's aggregate turnover increased, but from 2013 it decreased as a result of the reduction in overhead costs, resulting in a total revenue loss of about HUF 20 billion, which is only increasing over time. About 45% of the total expenditure in the sector is material expenditure. The cost of materials is an industry-specific item, representing only a few per cent of the total amount of water extracted, since cleaning and distribution costs are the most important part of the cost of drinking water. The water utility sector operates at high fixed costs as a fixed industry. At least 80% of the expenditure is not dependent on the amount of water supplied, so the lower water consumption reduces the service costs only to a minimum. Századvég Gazdaságkutató Zrt. and a joint study by the Hungarian Water Utility Association revealed that 56 percent of domestic drinking water systems are extremely risky and 30 percent of them are risky. This means that the water utility system in our country enjoys or rather does not enjoy chaotic conditions, unfortunately. In 2021, in the national water utility public service strategy adopted by the Government, 45 percent of the nearly 100 thousand kilometers of plumbing networks have long been beyond their technically useful life. We also need to highlight a similar serious problem, as fewer and fewer young people work for water utility providers, a quarter of the workers are expected to be absent from this sector by 2027. Let us conclude: it is a matter of national strategy to ensure that clean drinking water is available to everyone in our country without delay. There is no room for party political battle on this issue, without enlargement, where there will still be no water, without continuous and preventive maintenance, and in many cases there is no water where it has been, and without water there is not even the most essential condition for life. There is therefore a lot of work, but it is not in the direction of further repression of the municipalities, as they have been the great losers of recent years, but should take immediate steps by the government to expand and modernise water utility services. Therefore, the Hungarian Movement cannot support this bill in its current form. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-12-84	Congressman Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker of the LMP. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-04-12-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I will start with what I think we all agree with and we must agree with what the Secretary of State has said that water is life itself, and he also said that the national treasure of clean water is roughly repeated by all speakers. At the same time, I think that we should say what we are in and what the whole sector is in, that, in fact, on the brink of collapse, there is drinking water in Hungary, the water utility system, and we also need to be honest about it! In the medium term, the drinking water supply system in Hungary has been compromised and the protection of water bases has been compromised, because of infrastructure problems, right? It has already been said in the speeches that the level of network losses is just a figure describing this situation, so that almost 25 percent of the drinking water produced simply runs away because of bad pipe networks. It has also been said that the proportion of water systems with an appropriate rating in Hungary is below 20 percent. I deeply agree with all the criticisms that describe the activities of the left-wing governments, the Gyurcsány government, before 2010, in this regard, indeed, we have seen destruction in this sector, and, moreover, such outrages as when they were outsourced, and even before, such important infrastructure elements have been outsourced to private hands, this is totally unacceptable. And it could have been said that in 2010, a government calling itself a national could really be responsible for this area and finally start, let's say, a long process to deal with the problems. [[12.40]] Compared with this, the number of pipe fractures has doubled since 2010, so the number of failures in the water utility system has doubled. The fact is, Mr. Secretary of State, and I speak to you as to a Secretary of State not so long ago, perhaps a month ago, that I am obviously not asking you to account for these problems, because this is not only about the problems of the Orbán government, but also about the problems of the governments of the past decades. So here we are, Mr Secretary of State, that this is Hungary's most serious systemic problem today. I think that we all, even when we are criticising, must banish party politics, because it is indeed the future of the nation when we talk about the issue of water. By the way, it has been said by many, including the Secretary of State and the pro-government speakers, that there is enough water in Hungary; perhaps that was said by Mr State Secretary. And Congressman Nacsa, who is not here right now, said that Hungary is a water power. I would very much warn everyone, ourselves, against making such statements. Water is indeed life, and the future of our nation, our children, our grandchildren, depends on our ability to provide water for them. It is only the case that 95 percent of Hungary's water resources are in the water supply, and unfortunately, the situation in Hungary today is that it is currently draining the country, because the water flow out of the country because of the water management failure, more water is leaving than it is coming in, so it is practically drying out Hungary. Due to the extremely bad legislation, namely the de-institutionalisation of our water bases, our surface waters are in danger, our groundwater is in danger, and we can see a lot of serious pollution. Because of the problems of the water utility system, the problem of sewage treatment is also unsolved in many places, and we see problems in more and more places. We have just seen, for example, in the case of the Gerje Creek, what problems a poor sewage treatment plant is likely to cause. I believe that this is indeed the most serious challenge in relation to infrastructure. Let me just quote one more thing: In 2017, the Association of County-righted Cities, with the exception of one, the Fidesz mayors' Association, said that the utility sector is in crisis, sometimes the systems are in critical condition due to the lack of maintenance. This resolution was published by the County City Association in 2017. Unfortunately, I have to clarify Congressman Dudás. Unfortunately, this 3000 billion set out in 2017 does not describe the amount of money it would cost to renovate the water utility system, but it describes the missing resources at that time's prices. Now we can only really estimate how much money is missing in order to put in place the infrastructure needed to ensure the most important public service. And we can only use estimates because in 2015 we should have carried out the valuation of assets and the technical risk assessment on which we could now talk about precise numbers and precise technical parameters, but this was not done by the public utility office. As an element of this utility strategy, which has been hidden and cherished for some years, should have been completed by the end of 2021 with a specific technical plan, but it has not been completed, it is nowhere. If you look at the contact details of the utility office on the Internet, the Water Coalition has also drawn attention to this, no information on the technical state of the infrastructure has been published in the last ten years. So when they describe the state of the utility system, they don't say a word about it. They won't tell us because the government doesn't have any information on this at the system level. So what I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is all our responsibility to speak about this matter in accordance with its weight. I think it should be pointed out that the government must now really put aside all political, power-technical intentions that it has unfortunately not been able to put aside before, because this issue must be dealt with now. Not a year from now, not two years from now, not 2026, this issue needs to be dealt with now. You have made a political decision at the time on the reduction of costs, frozen prices, but on the other hand you have not provided operators with the resources they need for maintenance and replacement repair work. Also, the utility tax has been introduced, which is once again a huge burden for the entire sector. So it can be said that, in addition to not taking meaningful steps to address the serious problems of the sector, measures have been taken to further worsen the situation with a difficult legacy in 2010. I am glad that this question has begun to appear in the public address. I was also honoured to work as a representative of the Parliament in 2018, and my second speech was related to the water utilities sector. The first was a speech on national policy, obviously it was also of message value, but in my second speech I already spoke about this issue, and I have been striving to talk about it at this level ever since. I have asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán three times about the utility system in the hour of immediate questioning, and yesterday was the last time. I sincerely hope that it is not the kind and I do not want to be cynical, so to speak, the political depth of the government's current legislation and intentions, with which the Prime Minister replied to me. I wouldn't even quote what the Prime Minister was trying to cover up. I very much hope that the government is more thoughtful in this situation. The fact is, my fellow Members, that there is now an acute situation, the fact that the runaway overhead has put service companies on the brink of economic inability. An immediate action must be taken here and this source must be ensured. This is partly started, but this resource must be provided to companies to stay on the surface. I also asked the Prime Minister in November, and then he said that he hoped that this year's budget would be enough to stay on the surface. It's not enough! And I'm not saying that, but the service providers are saying that, but, by the way, the municipal associations are saying that. So what we need here is an immediate withdrawal of funds, and service providers need to compensate for the amazing costs of releasing energy prices. Next up is maintenance and replacement work. We've talked a lot about how terrible this pipeline is. But the representative of Mi Hazan has already said that if the initial maintenance fails, water systems can also be destroyed that could serve the communities living there for decades. So you have to be able to finance preventive maintenance, repairs, replacements. Mr Secretary of State also spoke about it, and perhaps also Mr Nacsa, what amount has been included in the budgets of recent years and included in this year's budget to support maintenance work; this year's budget is HUF 3 billion. Congressman Nacsa also recalled that the entire country's utility system could have managed with such amounts, i.e. 3 billion, 4 billion, 5 billion forints. It is quite clear that if we are talking about meaningful work, only HUF 200 billion should appear in the lower voice in this year's budget, which is about supporting maintenance, replacement and repair work. And it is very important that my fellow Members have already said that not only state-owned companies and service providers should be supported, but also local government. Here's a particularly serious emergency. Indeed, there was a certain threat that the utility assets could be transferred free of charge to the municipalities, because only those who did so could receive support. Thank God, that's what the Prime Minister denied in November, by the way, that it won't, others will receive support. We know that Pécs, Budapest, Szeged, Baja, Nagykanizsa, Szombathely and many other cities have decided not to hand over the utility assets. Perhaps the most important example is the city of Debrecen, which is a pro-government city. The mayor of Debrecen Fideszes said that this is such an important strategic infrastructure that the municipality cannot hand this out. That's how the Fidesz mayor of Debrecen put it, quite rightly. Perhaps the assembly decided unanimously not to hand over the utility fortune in Debrecen. And the General Assembly presented that there is no guarantee that the government, once it takes over from the municipalities who hand over the utility assets, will be able to address this problem, the maintenance and maintenance problem. Well, the mayor was right, because if you look at the budget, you can see that the government hasn't planned the resources to maintain nationalised utilities. In English, he told the person who wants to hand it over, wants to put this problem down, and then we'll solve it. But they don't solve it, they don't put the funds in the budget. So the municipalities that gave away the utility wealth free a few days ago or a couple of weeks ago decided that unfortunately; I think the decision was not well founded, the LMP voted against it, they could be so falsely felt secure that the government would solve it. He's not gonna fix it. It is the responsibility of the municipality, its duty to provide healthy drinking water, and it has provided its own decision-making competences, opportunities, powers that the government on the other side does not solve this problem. Well, that's got to be done. I believe that an immediate budgetary amendment should also be made in this regard. Similarly, we propose, Mr Secretary of State, that the utility tax be abolished. This utility tax, in its present form, is a completely unnecessary burden and makes the sector more difficult to operate by tens of billions. Furthermore, we also support those intentions that have already been partially leaked, that with this situation, by maximizing prices, something needs to be done. This is the sector where not only retail users receive reduced prices, but they operate at maximum prices from different of you, companies and others. This is an unsustainable situation! [[12.50]] So, obviously, the population must not be allowed to raise water prices. But it is not fair that practically the whole system is ruined because everyone at reduced prices, or I don't know how anyone likes to use these concepts, so drinking water can be achieved in this way, so it's been frozen for a decade now. Neither is drinking water billed in this way with the costs necessary for maintenance and maintenance. The problem here is not the reduction of the overhead, but the fact that you did not compensate for this to the person responsible for the service. Indeed, this issue must be dealt with on a systemic basis, and I can promise you that we will not use populist voices on this issue, but we will try to participate in this debate in a way that is constructively, putting proposals on the table, that we must now face this issue. Obviously, it was a power-technical step on your part to design this system. But I think that in order for the government to succeed, so this amazing and repeat, not only 13 years of failure, but decades of failure, the country is trying to work out, which is going to be a cross-border task, requiring amazing funding, I think that we need a very responsible attitude and immediate action. So that, after years, such action plans will be prepared, which we have been hearing for years from Secretary of State Schanda, now from Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz, that it is not important to the government! So this system will collapse, the drinking water supply. Dear Secretary of State, There's one more thing I need to mention. One of my fellow Members mentioned how amazing the shortage of professionals is. I think we all understand what this means in itself: if a service provider dances on the brink of bankruptcy, it cannot pay decent wages to employees, professionals leave the company, knowledge goes away, knowledge disappears, we have seen it in many places. Perhaps in the case of Érd, there was a time when watermakers couldn't get out for days to stop the pipe break, because he was no longer a specialist. This alone makes it impossible for us to compete with this problem. So professionals must be valued. Resources should be provided to ensure that professionals receive decent wages after decent work. This can't happen, what just happened to my shame, which I tried to ask Prime Minister yesterday about firing a water leader. The director of the Tiszanúl Water Management Directorate was fired, the person who described the consequences of the water supply of the battery plant planned for Debrecen generally described the risks, but he wrote that Debrecen's total drinking water, sewage and precipitation system should be completely rethinked, which will obviously cost tens of billions forints to serve this industrial park demand. This man's been fired. I asked the Home Office why, by the way. Just yesterday, perhaps, Minister of State Rétvári's reply came in; he wrote down the date on which this man's employment ended. The Prime Minister said a little cynical that everyone gets what they deserve. Now, this man did his job, he was a water manager. Responsiblely, he signed an opinion drawing attention to the fact that he is also taking huge risks from the point of view of water use by making such a decision, and this man has been fired. Now, this is a direction, Mr. Secretary of State, which must be forgotten, if you are serious about water being life for one minute. Thank you, Madam President, for your patience.
u2023-04-12-86	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga of the DK faction. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I really think everyone who says water is a treasure is right. He is also right, who believes that this treasure must be carefully guarded and guarded. I would go on with this: I think that water is a treasure, a national treasure, to the extent that it deserves an independent ministry. The fact that you didn't receive it is obviously the government's responsibility, but this is your chance, Mr. Secretary, to prove that you really mean your job and your job without an independent ministry. I'm Debrecen. As Debrecen, it is very important for me that Debrecen should be a liveable, prosperous city not only now, but also in 1-2-5-10-100 years. It is very important that we can continue to provide life in a severely water-stricken, drought-stricken area. Secretary of State, you had an predecessor, Dr. János Fónagy, who, as Minister of Transport and Water, spoke of Debrecen here in June 2001 in the walls of this House and that if there is no solution in Debrecen, then the water will disappear, that Debrecen will dry out, that the city will sink completely, that Debrecen's water supply will disappear. It seems that for a long, long time this was not taken seriously, and then some common thinking began. However, what we see now is that a mad plan, instead of replacing water in Debrecen in such a way that the dried-up lakes around Debrecen, the agricultural areas screaming for irrigation, Debrecen's concerned residents, who fear that the water will disappear from Debrecen, would be satisfied by building a huge battery factory, and the water, virtually one of the most valuable treasures in the country, water, would be thrown there as a prey. I think we're making the biggest mistake. It's not a mistake, it's a sin! As Secretary of State, it is your duty to protect the water supply of Hungary, the nation and Debrecen. Secretary of State, I ask you, after Dr. János Fónagy, will you be the next to stand up here in Parliament and say as a responsible government man how to protect Debrecen's water? As a responsible government leader, you will stand up and look Viktor Orbán in the eye, the creator of the crazy, onion-like plan, who teaches Debrecen this sick factory despite the people of Debrecen, and can you say that as Secretary of State, you do say in a responsible way that Debrecen is unable to endure a factory of such water destruction? Because if so, then I say that water has indeed fallen into the right hands, that if not, there is, in fact, no man in the government who can protect our most precious treasure, water from people who are throwing this water for the thirtieth of dogs at the moment. Thank you for listening. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2023-04-12-88	I salute my fellow Members. As I see it, László László Keresztes is coming to speak, a representative of the LMP. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-89	Thank you very much. I'd like to say hello to Mr. President, too. Dear Parliament, In short, I would like to continue my speech as a speaker. There are some thoughts that I would like to present to you. A little polarity has developed among my fellow Members that the ideas that we have just heard are part of the bill or not. From what I can tell, they're totally part of it. This bill contains a lot of measures, and it certainly deals with the fact that there will be some sort of committee here, with the involvement of the Minister for Water Works, the Minister for Water Management and the Utilities Office, to launch some sort of mapping of this utility system, this infrastructure. It is stated in the bill that some sort of explanation is being sought by this committee or the government for this network loss that can be attributed to physical problems. Now, I have drawn attention here to the fact that this investigation obviously should not have been carried out now, and not in 2010, but decades earlier, but if it has not happened before, it should have happened at least now. So it is obviously very important to map out the state of the water utility system, because, as long as we can see it, the problems that we see are partly derived from statistics, and partly from the various estimates and professional resolutions issued by the Water Utilities Association can also result in a certain HUF 3000 billion shortage of resources, which can be estimated at around 5000 billion at today's price. So it's important that this happens. Indeed, it is an important problem that water, water management and water decision-making in general are separate for several ministries. Basically, the Ministry of Energy is responsible for the issue of water utilities, responsible for the protection of the environment, the agricultural portfolio is responsible for nature conservation anyway, and obviously the responsibility and competence of the agricultural purse in relation to water cannot be questioned, but the Ministry of Interior is responsible for water management, which is obviously why this type of Commission initiative exists. But it can indeed be said and it can be said that it is extremely harmful not to have a unified thinking behind government policy, which would address the issue of water in such a holistic and uniform system. [[13.00]] Therefore, I consider it a huge error and deficiency that there is no water research institute in Hungary today, which has ever been, but has been, and has not been, a unified scientific background for water thinking, despite the fact that we are talking about a strategic resource. So I think it would be very, very important to take steps in this direction to have a scientific base of this kind in Hungary, and this is much more important than what a ministry is otherwise called. So I think, if you look at the specifics, that's the most important step. I think it is very important what I have emphasised in my speech just now that it is not possible to delay the withdrawal of funds, as new water systems, which will otherwise be saved, will be destroyed. Mr. Secretary. I referred to it yesterday, I tried to convince the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister was in the mood for this political blade change, that it does not involve spending 3 billion forints a year to improve the maintenance of the water utility system, and if we look at how much public money there is to meet the water demand of industrial operators, we can see that 30 billion for the Ivanča factory and 30 billion for the expansion of the Göd plant. So the claim that you are aware of the problem is not correct, but that it is not a matter of intent, it is a question of money. We see that the reason why there is no money to boost the maintenance, replacement and repair work of the water utility network is because it is spent on someone else. They are also building a water system, but not to improve or sustain critical infrastructure for the drinking water supply of Hungarian people, but to serve the water needs of industrial operators. What you said, Prime Minister, is not relevant, but we will wait for these factories to start producing, and then they will leave a lot of profits, and they will not leave, and that will be the way to restore the utility system. No! Therefore, if they do not wish to provide substantial resources for the maintenance of the water utility system by 2026 or for years, the supply of drinking water in many regions in Hungary will collapse. This is not a course for a national government and no government at all, it is a fundamental national interest to maintain and protect the functionality of the water utility system and our water bases. And one last thought is privatisation, outsourcing. I find the measures taken by former governments, Balliberal governments, or by any colorful city leaders who sell, outsource, privatize water utility systems to be incredibly irresponsible. We believe that it is a matter of national security that the right to control and control over our water resources should always remain in national hands, and we believe that basically in municipal hands, but in national hands, the state cannot give out to private operators, market players, public utility systems or the right to dispose of our water bases. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! It has indeed been said that Jenő Schmidt, the Fidesz mayor of Tab, said that the President of TÖOSZ, was concerned that the water utility system would not come to the fate of the expressway network. What I'm asking you is that you've met with this kind of government intention to solve this problem with some kind of outsourcing. And if you meet with this, do you have that kind of bell ringing in you, or do I not know what it is that you cannot support with your vote? Therefore, it cannot be allowed to privatise the infrastructure of the water utility and the provision over water bases in Hungary. You can't allow that, you can never let a nation out of its own control. I consider it very, very serious, by the way, the measures taken by the former governments in this direction, or the measures taken by the municipalities in this direction, because this is irresponsible, it can never be set as a good example either for the Hungarian Parliament or for any forum in political debates. So I think that we need to have national control over the provision of our water bases. I can tell Mr. Secretary that you've got quite a job to do. I think that we all feel that this is perhaps the most comprehensive and broad-ranging task, perhaps the most decisive in Hungary's future, relating to infrastructure, and that the result of a quite amazing, many decades of failure must be clearly synthesized, in some way reviewed by the Secretary of State. I can offer, not only as a member of the LMP faction, but also as Chairman of the Parliament's Sustainable Development Committee, that I myself will try to give any assistance to the Secretary of State if he so requests, if there is such constructivity on the part of the government. I think my fellow Members will also find that we are trying to banish party politics at the meetings of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I fully agree with all my fellow Members who believe that the issue of water should never be the subject of party policy debates. I myself will be a partner on this issue and wish Mr Secretary of State perseverance on this extraordinary task. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Zsolt V. Németh: Thank you very much.]]
u2023-04-12-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament, Vane is still applying for a speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see this on the display; the general debate is closed. Now, I'm going to ask the author if you'd like to speak. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] It says yes. I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh, who is the rapporteur, and he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2023-04-12-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me note that the basic tone of the debate itself was something that fits the weight of the case, so water is the basis of human life, national treasure, national security issue was recorded by almost all the speakers. Some of this is what Mr Varga put in place in his speech, who put out signs that it was a crazy, sick, brainless plan, a huge water-destructive battery factory, which is not actually the subject of the current legislation, but let me get to it for a few sentences. What I see is that connecting batteries with this indicator is that it's water-destructive, it's part of a political foundation, and... [[Zoltán Varga: Professional!]] At the very least, Mr President, it is not, in the least, professional, because indeed, as in many industrial facilities, water is necessary for production as cooling water, in many other industries. But if we look at how much water the battery companies use, they'll realize they're not in the top ten. I stress that the first ten Hungarian facilities! Paper factory, fertilizer factory, huge slaughterhouse and food plants, perhaps beer factories, but I don't want to say by any chance that they should turn to the brewery and try to push them out of the country. Or should I ask you, after you've finished your work here, so that you're out of here with your batteries, you're gonna go next door and everywhere? 'Cause if you're gonna destroy the environment here, you're gonna have to go somewhere else based on your internationalism, so let's not let the battery company destroy other people. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] So we need an electric car, but we need batteries destroyed. Public transport, public transport are good but bus stops? Well, there's a bus ringing in front of him all the time, so let's get the bus stops out of here. It's together. If we want electric transport itself, we're gonna need batteries at the current state of the art. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] And it will be for a very long time. In addition, let me say facts, because it is important to record what is available and what is not. Debrecen Infrastructure Developer Ltd. There is also a specialist there, according to engineers, Debrecen's theoretical capacity, i.e. the daily replacement of water resources for groundwater bases, is 75 thousand cubic metres per day, and for surface water 30 thousand cubic metres per day, i.e. 105 thousand cubic metres per day. These are the maximum quantities for which the water supply is not yet reduced in the case of extraction. It is currently available, so it is technically removable from 72-75 thousand cubic meters per day. This comes out as 12-15 thousand cubic meters per day on the cable of the Eastern main channel, and 60,000 cubic meters per day comes from the underground water supply. In order to ensure that authorised and accessible water resources can actually be produced, capacity development investments are needed, which are in the process of preparing and even investing. [[13.10]] In addition, let us mention the question of grey water, which is thought differently by a Western European literature: they are already there to separate the fecality from the washwater and others. With us, the grey water should be that this purified sewage, which is... [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] well, with Hungarian terminology, everyone means this, which is mixed with a one-third ratio to serve as cooling water. And the investments in the industrial park have expressed their willingness to use this water. This work is currently under way. [[Zoltán Varga and Dr. László Keresztes intervene.]] In addition, I trust that because DK and many others mentioned the frozen fee 10 years ago, as is the guilty one in the current situation, that if that change, I assume that it will be voted, so if the freezing has done wrong. Anyway, let's go back to those days, 2010. The Hungarian government frozen a practice in which, if we look back on the time before the change of regime, two things were certain that on New Year's Eve Géza Hofi spoke in the New Year's Eve cabaret, and prices would rise on January 1. This year-end was a permanent double, Hofi Géza and the increase in prices and fees. In 2010, we decided that this does not have to be the case, and that it was beneficial and that there are currently Hungarian families. So if we ask people that they do not like the reduction of the rent, but they do like the reduction of the rent, because they leave enormous amounts of resources in their pockets, and so the Hungarian quality of life could be higher than its competitors in the case of the same net salary. Of course, it is probably necessary to consider this in the case of water utilities. Transfer: to the municipalities to transfer their water utility property and the operating property itself, since it is two assets. There are a lot of emotional elements in this, because at the time of the change of regime, the type of attachment was natural, because most of the water utilities, the drinking water lines were built by the residents themselves: 11 meters, 11 meters, together with the opposite, there was a plot width. Well, of course it was part of the municipal estate. On the other hand, in recent years, and by the way, we are missing the huge investments made in this area during the Orbán government: 100% of them were built from European Union and national sources, without self-government and public self-esteem. But here I'd like to ask you, is it really natural for this to be government-owned? And, of course, there are a number of dilemmas between the two endpoints, so there are no party affiliations, because there is no dictatorship in this country, sometimes Fidesz-led cities decide, government-led cities decide that the company will remain government-owned, and there are also opposition-led cities that have decided to be part of integration. By the way, let us record that it's going from public property to public property. This is not the situation that our colleague Lőrinc Nacsa is talking about, that they have sold and sold the basic infrastructure; here Hungarian public property is being taken into Hungarian public property, if the municipalities believe. We're not TS organizers, so we don't send gypsy bands to join, we don't send beaters, so local communities decide themselves according to their short- and long-term interests. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai spoke about the situation regarding frozen charges, that they are also forcing local governments to integrate and that the quality of service provided by nationalised companies is lower than that of municipal companies. Well, it's a Fradi-Dózsa dispute, so I can't believe that someone, the same engineer who goes to the state company, will be useless, and he can't run the company properly, and he can't run the local government. There is and there is such a thing, so it is possible to provide a good quality service with motivated drivers. Moreover, it is not true that local government-owned companies do not receive aid; they receive aid. The amount of this support, let's say one number, 150 billion this year. So companies wishing to be integrated, state companies and municipal companies, if they do not wish to integrate, will receive 150 billion HUF supplement this year. So the fact that there is no money for maintenance is not entirely true in this form. In addition to all these, I accept that the situation in some places is indeed a cause for concern. Mr Róbert Dudás mentioned that water and drinking water should be constitutionally protected. Mr President, your wish has been fulfilled, because the Hungarian Fundamental Law states that drinking water, the supply of drinking water, belongs to the national property and, as such, is inalienable, and I hope that it will remain so. Mr Dávid Dócs mentioned a very interesting figure that 80% of the costs, 80% of the operating costs, are not essentially dependent on the amount of water extracted. In other words, it is almost the same cost in a small guard village of a few hundred people as here in the capital city. The Prime Minister also said that this is an unfair and unfair situation, because water may be in front of all infrastructure, the basis of life, if you will, is, if you will, ahead of electricity or gas. And I don't think the gas is cheaper than anywhere else, but neither is Pakson's electricity. So water currently has 4,000 types of fees, if you look at the basic fees, the waste water fee, the business and the public, the non-resident, so this needs to be changed, and the government is working on it. Finally, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Mr President, points out that, in the medium term, the Hungarian water base could be seriously threatened. All over the world, they're asking me that there's enough water. Well, let me be confined to the water utility area, admitting that this cannot be separated from other surface water. At the time of the change of regime in Hungary, 1 billion 12 million cubic metres of water was produced, today two thirds of it. This, of course, does not mean saving on the part of the residents, but on the part of the socialist major industry. There was less, about 50 percent, and in recent years it started to grow. Let me give you another pair of numbers. At that time, 90 percent of the 1 billion, about 900 million, was the amount of water sold. We're not talking about this, we're not talking about this, we're talking about network water loss. There is also sales volume, in Hungarian, which is not paid, and it is not only the leaky pipe, but also the washing, the technology, so there is much in it. Again, I note in parentheses that according to the numbers of the Water Coalition, these indicators have not deteriorated from one year to the next, which does not mean that this 21 percent is not high, the 21 and 22 percent. They're not the worst in international size, they're still in the middle, but there's definitely a need for intervention. But the part of the 900 million cubic meters sold at that time is now only half, so it can be seen here that two thirds of the output, but half of the sale, including the network loss that we have to deal with, is actually reflected in this year and last year, when we look at the energy demand for this otherwise unnecessary water that we have paid for in vain. So, when we want to fix the sector, we also need this kind of modernisation so that, on the one hand, if we reduce these network losses, we will lose less electricity and the electric pumps that are running must be replaced more efficiently. [[13.20]] Therefore, not only domestic resources are available, we are therefore developing programmes in this respect as well. I consider these important, the plans, everything, but the fact that the asset assessment and the technical plans have not been completed, will not or would not be an obstacle to a major development programme, I am sure of that, my fellow Member. A CEO who can't pick up the next three or four years, so, without any plan, to determine what the priorities are, is not fit for his job. You know these data, you know the leak data, the pipe fractures, there are now tests, X-rays, they are systematically conducted in a lot of places, and they draw conclusions. I would be satisfied with one third of the 3000 billion, and we will also take steps to put in place a scheduled reconstruction programme in the coming period. The discharge of the public utility tax is not possible under EU rules, it can only be derived in a sector-neutral manner, not separately for the water utility sector, but also in other sectors. The congressman spoke of the respect of professionals. I also think that this is the other danger, so it is important to pay attention to this, which is why, for example, for companies involved in integration, this is one of the first steps in catching up wages so that they can keep the workforce in water utility companies. All in all, thank you all for your contributions, including Congressman Varga's. The helpful intention, posture, attitude in this area will be necessary for the government to take the steps needed to resolve the problems of the water utility sector. I thank you in advance for this advance support and thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-12-92	Thank you, Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on health, health and pharmaceutical matters until closure. Government referral T/3512. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Takács, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-04-12-93	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, The government is committed to ensuring that the Hungarian population can benefit from the best possible healthcare services, while at the same time the service providers carry out their tasks taking into account the principle of cost-effectiveness. A key government priority is the continuous monitoring of the health condition system and the necessary changes, fine-tuning and updating of regulations; this is also the purpose of the bill before us. Allow me to briefly describe the most important proposals for amendments, since we have a lot of areas. Our first point is human reproduction. The supplement to the law sets out the detailed rules for fertility promotion. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that individual diseases, such as pre-oncological indications, are made available to those affected, regardless of gender, i.e. for both men and women, for their own purposes, for the purpose of carrying out subsequent reproductive procedures. There would also be an amendment to the law on the provision of health services on this subject. The rules governing the establishment of the relationship of professionals involved in reproduction procedures are laid down in the amendment in such a way that they are subject to the Labour Code, so that healthcare workers and specialists who used to work for private service providers do not need to reduce their income if they are Eszt. Under its rules, a reduction would take place. It's important to re-regulate the autopsy. This proposal contains the legislative framework in order to allow for an on-the-spot death investigation of persons who have died of natural causes outside the institution to be carried out by an ambulance officer on the basis of the rules laid down in the Government Decree, without having a medical presence. It should be pointed out that the rescue officer is entitled, after training in this regard, not automatically, to the manner in which death occurred, i.e. to the natural or non-natural nature and not to suggest the cause. The necessary training for this is being developed in parallel with the regulation. The tasks of the rescue officer in relation to the death investigation procedure will be included in the regulation at the level of the government decree, the main purpose of the amendment is to shorten the procedure and, where appropriate, the waiting time for the doctor, and simplify the procedures. In the event of a non-natural death, it is necessary to establish a system of medical examiners, which requires, in particular, regulation at government level. It is also necessary to amend the law on the processing and protection of health and related personal data. In view of the fact that the rescue officer has access to the EES during his procedure and may fill out parts of the electronic death certificate, it is therefore necessary to determine that he or she is subject to medical evaluation during his or her processing. The purpose of the amendment to the Health Act in relation to the death test is to ensure that the institution employing medical examiners and forensic experts who perform a judicial autopsy in the event of non-natural death should be considered as a health service provider, since the National Expert and Research Centre is not a health service provider, so that the forensic experts employed by it have not yet had access to the ESPT, which will be essential for their work. A further amendment is that the evidence of the rescue officer's training for the death test should be recorded in an operational register, which ensures that the rescue officer on the ground is entitled to suspect the origin of death. As far as basic care is concerned, a full, long-term, continuous and secure GP system is of paramount importance to all of us. The restructuring and development of the basic supply will result in a high-quality, verifiable, close-to-population care system based on professional experience with geographical and local characteristics, infrastructure, personnel and material conditions. The provisions which entered into force on 1 January 2023 set out the main directions for public engagement, which were necessary for the coordination of effective, interlinked and complementary health services and for the development of specific areas. The aim of increasing public engagement is also to relieve local authorities of the burden. It has become a public task or part of the task of setting up primary care zones, the provision of general medical care, home-patient on-call care and its organisation, the provision of a protective service in cooperation with the municipality, the advantage of which is that the patrons will be employees of the managing hospital in the county, and thus the Eszjtv will be united. This change also solves the problem caused by wage differences. The current amendments aim at fine-tuning the restructuring of the basic supply. In order to provide a higher level of medical care to the general public and to encourage a health-conscious lifestyle, it is appropriate, with regard to health policy aspects, to rebalance the financing system of GPs, GPs and dentists, which not only serves the above objectives, but also has a balancing effect between the current uneconomic, small-scale districts and the larger, well-functioning areas, which are more work-placed for the doctor. We are amending the provisions on regional transformation and the rules of the register, and the regional protection women would be transferred to the management hospital in Vármegye from 1 July 2023. [[13.30]] This will bring about uniform professional management through the patronage mentor network. It is necessary to distinguish between women in charge of official duties and the collegial protective women's mentoring network under the direction of the OKFő. The purpose of the amendment is to provide the Minister with the power to establish a new indicator system at regulation level. This work is currently under way. Once we have promised a continuous revision of the indicator system, we have set up a new working group within the Ministry of Home Affairs and we call for a mandate at ministerial level for flexible regulation. The 2000 II on self-medical activities Amendment of Law 3: In order to ensure the safety of general medical care, the provision provides for the possibility for the practice manager to challenge the contract for the provision of duties on grounds of nullity in cases where it does not contain the mandatory content required by the law or does not contain it as required by the law. In view of the fact that the task of the establishment of the primary supply zones has been transferred from the municipal authorities to the Praxis Manager since 1 January 2023, it is necessary to provide that, if a district is newly established, the municipal decree on that area no longer applies and that provision also lays down the rules of the regional register. We've identified an important area for patient safety in medical aesthetics. The representatives of the profession have indicated that the legal background for the provision of medical aesthetic treatments is inadequate in terms of patient safety, and that a large number of natural persons and companies are not eligible for it and carry out extensive cosmetic interventions, which often cause complications or serious harm to their health. These complications are borne by the public health care system in the form of additional costs. The regulation is necessary for the patient's sake. The amendment makes it clear that healthcare services include plastic restoration and aesthetic plastic invasive and so-called minimalinvasive interventions when intervention is carried out with very small tissue damage. The provision empowers the Minister for Health to establish procedures and rules for the activities covered by medical aesthetics. The modernisation of the specialised supply system will continue in the field of hospital integration. Each managed institution is the National Hospital Directorate-General, while the clinical centres operate in the maintenance of medical universities with a public interest trust fund. As a result, the regulatory environment for operation is different, given that in the first case there is a regulatory environment within the general government and in the second case there is a regulatory environment outside the general government. In order to improve the efficiency of patient care and to better carry out the educational, scientific and research tasks of universities, it is recommended that urban institutions managed by clinical centres are integrated into the clinical central organisation of that university. As a result, the management of the county could be carried out in the interests of patients and maintenance, and financial and labour processes could be planned more transparently and cost-effectively. It is of particular importance that hospitals thus integrated provide clinical health care in their respective cities as part of the clinical centre. In order to integrate designated public healthcare providers into a clinical centre, which would also result in integrated and efficient management of tasks, optimal use of revenues and resources, they should be abolished as budgetary bodies, operating licences, financing contracts and other rights and obligations transferred to each successor institution. We are also amending the law on the protection of non-smokers and certain rules on the consumption and marketing of tobacco products. Complementing the provisions of the Act is necessary due to the prevalence of non-smoking use of the bong and the frequency of its use. We protect consumers in the first place. Bongs are mainly used to smoke bong tobacco and can also be used as smoking herbs. These are considered smoking and are prohibited in public places. Another way to use it is to put in different minerals, not tobacco, stones, which are coated with molasses and used with different flavours. By definition, this does not qualify as smoking. The common bong is the bong in both uses, so this device is subject to the addition of regulation. It is also necessary to define the tasks of the body entitled to act in the event of a restriction on the use of a bong as an instrument. The reason for these changes is that, at present, the use of a bong in public institutions has increased to a worrying extent among juveniles, which in itself has been proven to have harmful effects on the circulatory or respiratory system and leads to cancer, and can also cause infections. It is necessary to supplement the regulation with regard to points of sale in such a way that the marketing of these products is only allowed for consumers aged 18 and over. Several elements of the bill address the development of the National Centre for Public Health registration systems, the necessary changes and the introduction of e-administration as widely as possible. In addition, changes can be found in this package of proposals due to EU obligations in the areas of nutrition health, drinking and bathing water, chemical safety, medical devices and drug authorisation. In the area of drug licensing, I would particularly point out that the aim of the change is to allow pre-licensing medications to be used by the patient group, which should be decoupled from the case of a health crisis, since the so-called early access programmes are already being used in other EU countries, which can serve as the legal basis for early access, which will enable patients to get the latest innovative therapeutic medicines available free of charge as soon as possible. Support for domestic pharmaceutical production is a key area. In order to recognise the processes of the domestic manufacturing of pharmaceuticals and research and development, the proposal allows that, for medicinal products for which the marketing authorisation holder is not only authorised to produce medicinal products for packaging or batch release, and if the first authorisation of the medicinal product has been granted by the Hungarian authority, namely OGYÉI, the requested indication should not have to be supported in at least three EU Member States. The 1997 CLIV on Health. The proposal contains a number of technical amendments to the law, which have come back from the profession or from healthcare providers in their daily application. They serve as a basis for the development of definitions and the ESZ and electronic registration systems. We also plan to amend Act C of 2020 on the medical service relationship. Most of it is a technical amendment or a focus on text, which makes it clear that residents referred to as separate points in the Act on Certain Issues of the Conduct of Medical Activity are also considered as health workers, and it is therefore not justified to classify them in a separate category in the Act. It should also be pointed out that, in line with the original legislative intention, there will be no severance payments, as in other sectors, in the event of termination of the legal relationship due to the preferential retirement of women. The different interpretation practices used by service providers make this amendment more clear. [[13.40]] The Healthcare Service Act does not provide for periods that are not included in the waiting period between grades, so it is necessary to regulate this, under which the length of unpaid leave between grades cannot be counted, except for the care and care of the relative and the child under 14 years of age, and the duration of unpaid leave for home care in the case of a child under 12 years of age. Health activities carried out by residential social institutions and the National Expert and Research Centre. These institutions are classified as health service providers by the bill, as in the areas of long-term care and death testing, these institutions should have access to the data of the Electronic Health Service Space, i.e. the EEST. During the medical fitness test required for the firearms permit, we will also widen access to the EES. The purpose of the proposal is to allow the investigator to have access to the psychiatric history of the subject, as recorded in the ESTE register, in the medical fitness check required for the firearms permit. I am convinced that some elements of the proposed legislation contribute to the better functioning of the health care system, both in terms of patient care and public health, as well as in terms of official and control functions, and I therefore call on honourable Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-12-94	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Péter Takács. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Pesti, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Health is the state of total physical, mental and social well-being, and the right to do so is a constitutional fundamental right. The government must meet this in a changing environment, in a changing economic, scientific, sociological environment, in a changing population environment and in a changing fashion. The Hungarian government's intention, its self-appointed expectation, is to provide a health service that is economically feasible and accessible to all, to increase the number of years spent in health, to broaden the system of prevention, to strengthen family support; consider the family as an important factor in maintaining health. The regulation that we have just adopted, the salad law that lies before us, the changes in recent years, a kind of legal follow-up to the law, the elimination of incoherence. There are some 155 amendments in this law, obviously, I do not wish to mention them all, but I would like to say a few words about the most important ones. What's been going on lately? There has been a very serious change: there has been an unprecedented wage increase following the launch of the graduating system, the transformation of the practice system, the re-regulation of the on-call system has been a major change in Hungarian health care and the restructuring of the management system, the management at county level, which had already been included in the Fidesz health programme in 2009, but unfortunately this could not be achieved in the failing Hungarian economy at that time. We're glad that this has been played again. It will be more likely to work with 15-20-30 doctors or hospital managers than with 150-160-170 hospital managers at the same time. There has been a very significant change in health care, as while there has been a 4% reduction in funding per year by 2010, the seventh highest increase in funding for Hungarian health has been seen between 2010 and 2018. In 2010, we spent 1198 billion forints on health care, with HUF 2800 billion in 2023. There's been a significant increase in medical wages. One of the results is that the salary of the starter doctors increased five times, and the salary of the 40 - year - old doctors increased eight times. Then, specifically, the details of the human reproductive background. Given that the future of all nations depends on its demographic situation, the government is therefore strongly in favour of improving the situation of fertility treatment. The system of fertility benefits has been changed since 2020 and medicinal treatments used in the care sector have become 100 percent supported in Hungary. Since the State has purchased the previously privately-owned and large-paying fertility supply system, it is also the law that seeks to put workers in a position to remain there, not to have financial problems, not to have pay differences that make the operation of these institutions impossible. An important aspect is the revival of the national human reproductive register. This was already planned in 2014, but now that it is under uniform state control, it will also be filled with content. Its purpose is to examine the role and impact of the reproductive process on society. There may also be a number of scientific results, the scientific follow-up to human reproduction processes. The appearance of the ESZ has been a significant change in the amendments to the certificate of incapacity for work. It is obvious that the appearance of the EEW has also been a certain restriction for many, but this restriction has sometimes caused problems. We are now opening this option to government chief doctors carrying out checks on incapacity for work and review tasks in order to reduce abuses. It is important that patients abroad are subject to the regulation of insurance notification abroad. In fact, the point is that if someone needs medical care abroad, it is possible to decide whether the state will finance patient care there, or even have the opportunity to deliver it home, finance the repatriation, and further treatment will take place here, especially in the interests of the patient. (Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. István Tiba.) The legislation on waiting lists also undergoes a major change, because there was a harsh anomaly in this, and political debates were often targeted here. This waiting list was of some length in a hospital, but this included a well-liked and well-respected doctor, who was then waited for by a great many, while the doctor working alongside him, with similar knowledge, could have taken this test much sooner, but the patients insisted on it, and the waiting list was only this long, and it was more accessible than others. Thus, the regulation on waiting lists also changes to the fact that the difference between the waiting list and the entry list is clarified and the direction in which this movement is in is also made clear. For this purpose, the State wanted to draw a dividing line between public and private supply, which would avoid abuse, in relation to the provision of data in the ESTE. So it is simple, it is quite clear that it is not desirable for the State to wash and mix public care and private care. Obviously, it will require additional tasks as to how the two systems can cooperate side by side. The Secretary of State mentioned the processing of data during the medical fitness test required for the firearms permit; the ESZT is also relevant here. I mentioned earlier that the opening of the ESP was an opportunity for, for example, government doctors. Here, any doctor who grants a firearms permit will make the ESPT available. If we look around the world, what we see is that a lot of people, especially in the United States, have access to weapons, and that weapons medical tests are very, very loose. [[13.50]] At home, thank God, there are fewer of these, but we see that the danger is increasing here too; and it is very, very important that the medical examiner has access to all the data, especially the data on psychiatric issues, which is necessary to hold a weapon or carry a weapon, to have all the health data of the person wishing to buy it available to the person who gives permission to hold a firearm. It's a very serious question of the death test. In recent times, the practice was that if death occurred in public areas, the ambulance went out, the paramedic determined death. But he couldn't really do that, so he was protecting the dead, protecting the dead, or at least overseeing the public domain. The police came out. He waited for a doctor to come out, the doctor confirmed death, and then the dead could be transported. There have been 48,500 cases in the last year. So this was a completely unnecessary additional task, while paramedics can be trained to determine death and to take action with death to ensure that, after the fact of death, if there is a subsequent suspicion of exceptional death, other investigations will be carried out, whether by specially trained doctors with appropriate remuneration, or, in the event of suspicion of a criminal offence, a postmortem and on-the-spot examination with the involvement of a forensic medical examiner may be desirable. There has been a huge change in basic care. There was a very big difference between the practices, and there was no stability in the system. There are obviously two important factors: the population is wandering, some practices have been reduced, others have grown roughly. And in the primary care supervised by the municipalities, there were several relationships between the general practitioner and the local government, there was that the local government ruled the general doctor or the general doctor ruled the local government, and there was a completely chaotic situation. We believe that it has been brought under unified state control, and this is certainly to be welcomed. It is obvious that, when it became a state task, a lot of additional tasks have come into the hands of the state, the establishment of the primary care areas, the provision of general medical care, the organisation of the care of children's children's doctors and the organisation of it Budapest is currently an exception, the provision of a protective service in cooperation with the municipality, the advantage of which is that the patrons will be employees of the managing hospital in the county of Eszjtv. is covered by the scope of this regulation, which also solves the problems caused by wage differences. Their relationship with the municipality does not completely cease, so much so that the system allows and even supports the continuation of programmes organised jointly by certain municipalities and by the patrons, such as the baby-mama programme and others, and will continue to be supported. An interesting question is the medical aesthetic problem and its background. It is shocking that over the past few years, there has been a great East and Fashion of Beauty interventions, which, of course, has resulted in the fact that everyone has completed this with appropriate professional qualifications, has become a lot of complications, which will have resulted in complications in public health and have had brutal costs for public health. I think that so-called invasive or miniature interventions can be carried out by qualified doctors, which is also covered by the regulation. The other part of the transformation, as I mentioned, was the establishment of the county system, and as a result, in 15 counties the so-called leading county hospitals were given institutional tasks in the county of Vármegy, under which they joined smaller hospitals. But there are three counties where there are serious clinics, and now these clinics will be the ones that run, control, organize health care. Mr State Secretary mentioned one, this is a state institution, and the other is a model-shifting university, and these will be maintained by the institutions. It is obvious that there is a new type of regulation that aims to achieve consistency in the system as well. In outpatient establishments with a municipal reserve, professional maintenance powers are exercised by the institution of the county and its management. Chemical safety and smoking issues have been raised, in particular the appearance of a bong. I would just like to point out that around 8 million people in the world die every year from smoking and 700,000 people in Europe, and 50 percent of smokers live 14 years less than they could have lived without smoking. A new version of the bong was also published, not only in the wood charcoal version, but also in electronic form. A sad figure: 2012 survey shows that 24 percent of boys and 15 percent of girls in the 13-15 age group use bongs. After cigarettes, bongs are the second most popular tobacco product among young people. Compared to cigarettes, bong tobacco contains more mutagenic and carcinogenic substances. Nowadays, electrical heating is spreading instead of the traditionally used charcoal for heating the bong preparation, where carbon dioxide and PAH produced during charcoal heating are reduced. However, some carcinogenic substances, such as acrolein, increase approximately 21-fold. In view of all this, I can say that the objectives cannot be disputed in relation to this draft law. We hope that the goals will be supported by some kind of support. I also ask the faction to support the submission made by the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-96	Thank you very much, Congressman Pesti. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Komáromi, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'm getting used to the fact that the government, like the chefs of an expensive restaurant, is able to submit salads and salad laws regardless of season. In these legal salads, there are not uncommonly reasonable, professionally correct proposals, such as the use of the EES holder when issuing a firearms permit in this proposal, but there are some that represent a correction of an earlier failed law, which may not even have to be done. For example, personal contributors are not prohibited, but the main instruction governing this is maintained, in which the amount of salary payable to personal contributors is limited, and thus the scope of the institution is completely limited for employees in part-time employment. These salads help the governing parties to carry a number of uncoordinated rules through Parliament under one smoke and then later accuse the opposition of saying no to a specific partial regulation of the salad. This includes, of course, the rite that the amendments tabled by the opposition, regardless of their professional or enforceability values, are mercilessly and often unreasonably rejected. (In the notary seat, Dávid Dócs Replaced by Sándor Berki.) That's what we're talking about right now. This salad is made up of 22 leaves, and it will not be very suitable to solve the most important and major part of the current health problems. By waking up from his sleep, all health workers or patients can answer the question of what problems today's health situation is. Should I list it? In particular, health professionals and non-medical professionals have been delaying their wage increases for years; the right shift of the general medical staff and the increasing rate of unfulfilled home and dental practices; the extension of the powers of the general practitioners for years; the normal financing of prevention and care activities in the practice communities; the financing of the extra professionals employed by the practice communities; the management of the increasing hospital debt; the threat of nationalisation of local government clinics; the prevention of anomalies resulting from the experience of health care services; the management of the increasing shortage of specialists in urban hospitals, thereby ensuring their safe functioning; the resolution of the human resources problems of OMSZ; decent wage of rescue workers; the management of the increasing number of drug shortages; the stopping and reversal of the pharmaceutical closures in smaller settlements. [[14.00]] How does this bill help these problems? I don't see it at all. With regard to significant deficits and malfunctions, this bill did not bring any breakthroughs. If our healthcare system works so crunchy, what can we expect to improve the health of Hungarian people? The Secretary of State's exposé also confirmed me that this bill is only a source of real problems, the surface, rather than a discussion of technical issues. Let us look at what, in my view, unacceptable thesis we find in this bill. The medical administration's records will be much more complex and thorough than before. Police logic, old Soviet cartoon: Wait a minute. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Please bring in the DK class again!]] What? [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I'm sorry, I just got the papers mixed up. More detailed, even more accurate data on businesses, doctors, is now being put into an electronic database, but I do not see the intention of registering a document only once, in one place, and the other offices would take over it, so bureaucracy is not reduced, and the client's business is not simplified. At least I don't see a trace of that in this bill. But there are amazing things in it. The health authority will keep a record of on-call data for healthcare providers entering into a financing contract in primary healthcare. For professionals working in institutions, the fact of volunteering and the monthly number of hours of volunteered extra work are kept up-to-date and recorded. The availability time in the primary supply is recorded on a daily basis. The latter is incomprehensible in the basic health care system, since it has been out of the basic care legislation for about 20 years, only NNK insists that it is still cramped in relation to the issue of the operating licence; it is time to draw it out of this law. Moreover, according to the Labour Code, the availability obligation is fulfilled in the form of standby or on-call, which was finally abolished by the SECSM Regulation 41/2003. Up-to-date information is available to the health authority on whether or not the healthcare provider's doctor with the right of practice participates in the primary care care care unit. For example, this may be the basis for the withdrawal of the operating licence, with which a number of district chief doctors threatened the colleagues of Győr-Sopron county and Szabolcs-Szatmár county in writing. What is the reason for this regulation? After all, only 700 GPs are currently missing from the supply system, and there are only 935 thousand people living in settlements where there are no GPs, and there are only 186 thousand children. The authority must be very strict, since only 37.5 percent of the 5636 GPs currently working in primary care, or 2119 colleagues, are 65 years of age and only 1117 are over 70 years of age. The more worrying is that, according to KSH data, more than 700 GP districts have ceased in 12 years, most often because no new ones have been found for years instead of a departed GP. Of course, these tasks had to be taken over by others remaining on the course. Other: they also want to keep records of machine-mechanisms provided by healthcare providers to perform health services by type, make, year of production and production number. Since it is increasingly possible in sectoral legislation to discover that public administration bodies are shutting down health institutions and their departments overnight, the question arises that if the medical authority has such detailed information on machines and instruments provided for the provision of health services, this does not create the possibility for the health authority to override a previously issued licence, and once it considers that the medical service provider's instrument park no longer complies with the rules that may have been amended in the meantime, this may also constitute a basis for limiting the operation of that institution or department or its suspension. This is truly unusual in the light of the fact that the same authority has constantly extended the temporary authorisation of a large number of institutions in recent years, even in cases where the service provider clearly does not comply with both personal and material conditions in terms of minimum conditions. Vehicles of rescue and sick transport healthcare providers will also be registered, not least: registration number, registration number, vehicle make, type and date of manufacture. For the record, sometimes the NNK registration system is still ticking. How will you cope with this relentless extra work, even if this is done electronically? Or is he not the one who needs this data, but the Home Office? You always have a little devil in you. A so-called one-stop shop has been established in many areas of public administration in recent years. I don't see any of this in this bill. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what this is about!]] I even discovered some logical loopholes in it. Public-funded healthcare providers must also attach, in addition to a number of documents, an operating licence issued by NNK to conclude their financing contracts. Yes, but how can you include in this authorisation the code of the financing contract with the health insurance body issued by the health insurance body when obtaining the operating licence? It's a mystery. I have already mentioned the proposal for personal contributors in the sector. The question is that, despite this restriction, it is possible to conclude a further contract of contributors. It would appear so, since according to the bill, no personal contributors or organisations need to apply for an operating licence, it is sufficient to register that person or organisation officially. The condition remains that the person or organisation provides its activities on the basis of a personal contribution contract by providing only the personal conditions of the healthcare service, the contribution is carried out exclusively as a self-employed person or as a member of a social enterprise or as a member of an employment relationship or as a member of an individual company. However, it is important to comply with the OKF's instruction on the procedure and remuneration of a personal contributor in relation to the authorisation of a personal contributor. Then what's the point? Since the remuneration is not based on the current or current specialist pay table, it is based on the salary in force on 31 December 2021. Then this will not help smaller health care establishments, which could continue to function in the future, as has been the case so far, with part-time or retired professionals. [[14.10]] It would be worth considering the extent to which the occupational health care of the sports medical network or smaller institutions would be facilitated by the possibility for personal contributors working there to bill the current rates of pay to the institutions using their activities and should not be subject to a health service contract with the institution, such as the National Institute for Sports Health. Of course, this would mean that this would only work if NEAK provided wage support, as in the case of a healthcare service, in the light of the previous life experience and the years spent by that professional. It is weird that the draft empowers the Minister for Health Insurance to lay down detailed rules on GP and Dentist Indicators in a regulation, to define certain indicators and to assess the method of curative prevention of GPs and dentists and to set the targets on which it is based, while the rules on operating frameworks continue to be governed by a government regulation. In my opinion, the conditions for the development and implementation of the indicator system which is still being revised or subject to supervision should be carried out with the involvement of the relevant professional group, I hear, but later in the usual manner, in the case of 43/1999. It should be inserted into a government decree, which is where it belongs. Nor can the draft act depart from the current NNK practice, which, when establishing the territorial supply obligation, would not adapt the capacity of the care institution to the real need of the given area, but instead assign this logic to the professional supply capacities of healthcare providers. In this way, the paradoxical state can be that the Pomazi Gálfi Béla Nonprofit Kft. can be used to treat psychiatric infirmities in Terézváros. 27 kilometers, by public transport, 45 minutes instead of getting patients into Péterfy Sándor Street psychiatric ward just a kilometer from the Csengery Street office of the Terézváros Health Service. All in all, it seems to me that this is a very fast-built salad that doesn't answer the real questions. I have a few more questions, and I would like to say them in the context of a proper comment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause for DK and Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-12-98	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Komáromi. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The one thing that Congressman Komárom is right about is that this law does not solve all the issues that arise in health care, but you came here with that attitude. You spoke twenty seconds out of 15 minutes about the passage of the law and what is in the law, and what is good or what is to be criticized by you, and talked about topics in health that are not the subject of this law. So it is a fact, and we all admit that this law will not solve everything that has been raised in health care at the same time, and it has not been created for that. So the fact that you're talking about things that aren't in there and what you think about Hungarian health is not the subject of the current bill. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Neither was the waiting list, and Congressman Pesti talked about it!]] not subject... [[Róbert Zsigó to Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Relax, Congressman. The president's ringing the bell.]] I listened to you for 15 minutes and four seconds, Congressman. At the same time, he didn't say how many times you wanted hospital closures, how many times he stood up for the visitation fee, how many times he said that paid health care was good, and that's the way to go. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: I never said that! I never said that!]] Well, then you can bring this here, too. My question, honourable Member, is how many times did you talk to Ferenc Gyurcsány about why you withdrew 600 billion forints from health care as Prime Minister [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi intervenes.]] [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi intervenes.]] [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi intervenes.]] , how many times Ferenc Gyurcsány talked about why he closed the children's hospital in Svábhegy, the Institute of Psychiatric and Neurology, Schöpf-Mereit, why he terminated me (Dr. Zoltán Komáromi intervenes) 16,000 active beds, why did Ferenc Gyurcsány release 6,000 medical workers. (Dr. Zoltán Komáromi interrupts.) These are facts, Your Honour. The question is how many times you've talked to Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Not facts!]] And he asked her, "I'm sorry, Feri, why did you have to do that?" [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: These facts are not true! The president's ringing the bell.]] These are facts and numbers. [[Róbert Zsigó to Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Congressman, should we call a doctor?! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You've taken a month's wages, visits and hospital allowances from all health workers. These are facts. 16,000 active beds... Do you remember the privatization, honourable Member, of the villainy that you have done under the name of the Gyurcsány government? The fact is, honourable Member, that you have not mentioned these, nor have you mentioned the bill. There is a legislative amendment here, as the Secretary of State has pointed out, a number of legislative amendments from the experience of recent years and proposals for the protection of improvers, whether bureaucratic or administrative, for example digitalisation or non-smokers, which Mr Komáromi also did not mention. That is how we know that DK did not come here with the intention of discussing the law, but to hold a half-hour of such health care, because, for example, the Passes on the Protection of Non-Smokers, which appear with emphasis in the law, did not even speak, although it is important, and it is in this law, which we are here to discuss. Here, I think it is an important goal to create a coherent legal environment in the field of health, to ensure access, digitalisation, legal integration, and to achieve changes in terms of deregulation, regulatory development and technical aspects. The Member has also criticised and missed a number of things which are, by the way, the jurisdiction of government decrees or ministerial decrees, which must therefore be laid down in government decrees or ministerial decrees, not by law. In the bill, access rights will be clarified in the ESZT, the Electronic Health Service Space. Here, perhaps, even during the Covid epidemic, the use of the ESZT has started much more widely, and much more people from there have learned its results, whether we are talking about a test result, whether we are talking about blood tests, other findings or documents from this Electronic Health Service Space. This is a communication interface using cloud technology, connecting healthcare providers, general medical care, walking and inpatient care, pharmacies and the population throughout Hungary. Through the ESZT, faster, smoother and more efficient patient care is provided, as not only those involved in general health care and public-funded outpatient care have joined the ESZT, but also the National Rescue Service, private health care workers and medical aid distributors. There are a number of functions available on the website of the ESZt retail portal for patients: e-recipients, e-portents, e-profile, which summarises the patient's most important health data, an event catalogue summarises the health care studies and the patient's health documents. Like I said, during the Covid pandemic, it became part of our everyday lives. Here, on the surface, an appointment could be made for Covid, where digital Covid certificates were available, which then served as a model for the entire European Union, honourable Members. Let us be proud that the Hungarian ESZT Covid ID has served as a model and is based on the European Union as a whole on vaccine passports. And, uh, the tests and the healing certificates were also available here. The ESZT keeps pace with the ongoing digitalization of our age and provides a fast, personalized, comfortable and safe alternative to the treatment of health documents and benefits. The aim of the Hungarian government and Fidesz-KDNP is to provide the best possible health care services for the Hungarian population, so it is necessary to ensure modern regulation, digitalisation and coherence of the legislative background. I think that everything that reduces the administration of patients increases access, and is a simpler, more digital and more easily manageable, interoperable interface, and does not happen, which is typical of the Hungarian health system over the last decades, that as many providers, as many places of supply, as many software, are not compatible with each other, and that we had to hunt how we achieved our own data, I think we have made a huge leap forward in recent years. If I just mention from Hungarian health care that we spent 500 billion forints to renovate and modernise rural hospitals, if we just look at the fact that there are 6 thousand more doctors and dentists working in Hungary than in 2010, if we look at residency programmes and scholarships, then we can see that there are a lot of things going on in health care. If we look at the historical doctor's salary increase, if we look at the medical staff's salary increase, then we see that things have happened. [[14.20]] They will never hear from us that we are ready, that we have no task, that we have no further work to do, because there is much work to be done in health care. That's what we're working on all the time. If you look at it, we increase the number of health budgets every year, spend more every year on the health care system, if you look at it, about every year we are discussing the amendment of the Non-Smoker Protection Act, and we are taking more and more important steps to protect non-Smokers from harmful effects, and, of course, encourage as many as possible to abandon their smoking lifestyles and to do more for their health, for the common health of the whole country. So what I can say is that on behalf of the KDNP fraction, we can support these amendments. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-100	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-04-12-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The bill before us is supposed to be part of the government's health reform programme. I say that in principle, because the programme and reform package of such an important area should always be a thoughtful, well-built and professionally based material agreed with all the relevant professional organisations. Well, it's not like that. Some parts clearly show illogical and inadequate regulation, and several points are fire-fighting improvements to previous, also prematurely created laws or misguided decisions. So this cannot be part of a real reform package. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear rapporteur, There's a lot of health problems. We humans feel this, and we feel it in the medical profession. But if they don't believe us, they don't believe their own data, because their own government agency, the National... [[Towards Máté Kanász-Nagy:]] It's really hard to talk like that. Thanks. So, one more time. So if you don't believe us, they don't believe their own data, because their own government agency, the National Health Insurance Fund Manager, published the surgical hospital waiting lists yesterday. As my fellow Member has already mentioned, I repeat, because the term "surprising" is not a journalistic turn of events. 39 751, so nearly 40,000 patients are waiting for surgery only from the 13 types of intervention that must be kept on the waiting list. There's no record of the rest, but I don't have any illusions, there's a lot of sick people waiting. But the National Health Insurance Fund Manager also provides information on persistently unfilled GP and pediatric practices on its website. The table is 27, I repeat: 27! long list of unfilled medical practices according to settlements. Tens of thousands of families have no permanent home doctor, no permanent pediatrician, and not a practice that has been vacant for many years. Now, these data, the length of waiting lists, the number of unfilled GP practices, and the state of hospitals, the debt pool of institutions, the permanent shortage of doctors and nurses, the lack of tools and capacity all indicate that Hungarian health care is in ruins. And this is the crime of the Orbán government! Because, yes, this is all the result of the failed health policy of Fidesz-KDNP, because these data and these conditions are difficult to lubricate for the last eight years before the last eight years. The Orbán government that he touched in health care had a good chance that it went wrong, and then when he wanted to deal with the problem, it got worse. Here is an example of this from recent times: the transformation of the basic on-call system. This has already been so screwed up that doctors in the entire counties have publicly refused to participate in the professional cooperation of the Medical Chamber, not for their own sake, but because, in their opinion, the new system is inadequate to ensure the safe care of patients. And what did the government do? He sat down with the doctors and their professional bodies, the Medical Chamber, to establish a functioning on-call system in the interest of the patients. [[Dr. Péter Takács: That's what really happened!]] Oh, no. The government did not care at all that patient care was at risk, but rather that it was a means of political revenge to weaken the professional body of doctors. He's terminated his mandatory bar membership. Let's just say that didn't work either, because over two thirds of the doctors, nearly 30,000 people, decided to stay in the Medical Chamber. In addition, with this current bill, it is already necessary to amend the ethical rules of procedure when the political attack, the cessation of the Medical Chamber, is required, for example, so that medical ethical matters are not decided by a body whose membership does not require being a doctor. But speaking of ethical matters, it's a small addition. In this proposal, we find that ethical procedures are now repeated by eight instead of one and a half months: eight! This should be done over the course of the month. The problem is that this is a threat to patient safety, as for eight months there will be no decision on doctors whose activities violated the rights of patients or other doctors through ethical violations or endanger patient safety because unjustified cases remain over the heads of innocent doctors for many months. Moreover, the present proposal shows that the basic procedural conditions have not yet been established. It has to be modified, and it's only been a month. It also shows how rashly they are taking action and how far this whole thing cannot be called a thoughtful health reform package. Right now, the government is rushing to figure out how to conduct ethical procedures without the MOK, rather than reinstating compulsory medical chamber membership as a primary professional organisation and giving them back the conduct of ethical procedures. They have handled this well and will continue to be good owners of these procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to what has already been done, the bill before us approaches the issue of medical relations in the wrong direction. This proposal further strengthens the fact that a doctor should not be able to provide care to the same patient on the basis of multiple legal relationships. Many doctors work in both private and public care. In my opinion, in a situation where the Hungarian health care system is suffering from a serious medical shortage, the idea that a particular patient cannot be treated by the same doctor in public care is not working because, for example, he is treating it in private practice for another reason. But this bill also makes it worse for people by changing fairness rules. It is proposed that products which may be obtained without a prescription and which do not receive social security aid will not fall within the scope of products eligible for individual equity. Therefore, the patient in need will not be able to ask for price support for these medicines. All this at a time when, on the one hand, medicinal products have increased enormously because of the poor economic policy and weak forints, and, on the other hand, people have less and less money because of brutal inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear rapporteur, This bill is unprofessional, unthinkable, and I dare to risk being inhuman. The Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support this proposal, because many of its points do not change the situation of health care that is already in ruins in the right direction, and thus serve the interests of sick people in an inadequate way. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-12-102	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I now give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Several people here have raised problems that are not relevant, and listening mainly to the statements of the pro-government representatives, everything seems to be in order, yes, they say that they are still working on it. But I would ask you the question, because surely you are faced with the same situation as a Member of Parliament, who people have the idea that if others are not, they will be able to help you with your problems: we really wanted to create the health care we have now. Because when you get out of here, my fellow Members, and you may recall your missed calls, you are constantly confronted with the call that you, Lőrinc, can help me to see that one of my family members is very ill, you should somehow get to a good oncologist, because, say, at the hospital in Kistarcsa or Kecskemét, you do not trust or receive any good care there. And then you start making wild phone calls. Everyone in Hungary is working to use their personal relationships to go to a doctor and see a doctor. You say that you wanted to create a system of stability, but that's nowhere near that. In fact, public care is no longer at all suitable for this and, unfortunately, this is how it should be seen to provide good care for patients. [[14.30]] And you're meeting with these cases every day, and you're desperate for different relationships, for good care, for private, for clinics. Is this the kind of health care we're trying to create? Mr. Secretary. Is that what you've been working on for 13 years? ! This was our goal after the change of regime, so that everyone was desperately looking for their next of kin and for you, how could a powerful doctor get there because he was afraid that his next of kin would die in that hospital or in the supply place he belonged to? The personal responsibility of us decision-makers is that this system has come here! The fact that everyone in Hungary is looking for a place to get the best care, even though it would have been our responsibility to create a system of social security from the funds collected and now, most of all, from taxes, which can provide the same care at the hospital in Karcag, the hospital in Zalaegerszeg, the hospital in Mátészalka or the hospital in Baja. Ladies and gentlemen, But it's not like that! Therefore, everything that is being said here, what changes are being made, which I have listened to for the n+1st time since 2014, and each time they have told me what improvements, changes are being made... we have gone deeper in this spiral. The situation in Hungarian state care is getting worse! And as a representative of the Jobbik-Conservatives, I am still committed, and I believe that a strong, robust public care is needed. In Hungary, it is not in private care that the solution should be sought, but in a well-funded, strong public supply. Because this market is a market of ten million people or now a market of less than ten million people would not be able to afford private health, private insurance and other private property. That is why we are all responsible for strong public care. I have also been talking about this since 2014 to liberal or left-wing thinkers who see this differently, including you, in whom the billionaires who buy private health care are growing; the last time the Prime Minister's son-in-law is in this business. Let us not forget, Mr Wáberer was able to buy not only a transport company but also a private clinic; the private clinic whose services are advertised by the MVM in the hands of Lőrinc Mészáros to go there under private health insurance. The MVM state company wants to sell me insurance under a phone call to pay for the Wáberer Clinic! When I first got this call, I almost sent them away, and I'm not saying where to say nasty things, so let's stop for a second. I don't want to hear about private health and private insurance from a public company's phone call, because I believe there's a state primacy and the state can make it strong. On the other hand, everything that is in this bill, even if we consider the direction to be well-meaning, is contrary. The fact that the nationalization of the specialist clinics is taking place means that and perhaps the Members sitting here know this better, because the former mayor of Pécs or my fellow Member of Baján, or the country colleagues who saw it, were in the leading positions of the municipalities, and they saw how outpatient care, outpatient care, specialization, and the gems of the municipalities were formed. Well, all the municipalities have been working to make the local hospital and its outpatient clinic one where the population finds the greatest possible comfort and safety. They've installed supplies above the force, combined with the local population, that they were the most prestigious supply sites. I've never been there as good a specialist in my life as I was at the office in Tiszaújváros. This clinic was more serious than a hospital, because the local population, the local government, took the trouble to install supplies that were needed there. Dear Secretary of State, When you started nationalization and took over the role of maintenance of hospitals from the local authorities, at first everyone was confident that it would be really good, united, centrally well-managed, and, let's just say, economies of scale for hospital care. But compared to that, we saw that hospital care was a continuous drop in standards, that it was a class break, and it just couldn't keep up with technological progress, even though you were trying to pour the money. The municipalities were able to create the conditions for good farming if the amount was passed on to them. Between 2010-14, I was a local government representative in Karcagon. During this period, the director of Karcag Hospital came to the committee twice a month to report on the progress of the local economic and human resources situation. The municipality saw everything and knew everything, and was able to tell me, could help if something was stalled; if there was a problem with the servicing of one of the devices, if there was any extra money, that he knew that the foundation had to hand over the money first, that the hospital's foundation would help with the care. Because that's how it worked. He was a good owner of the municipality, and it has to be said, he was a good owner of hospitals. And the municipality is a good owner of outpatient care. I think it's my fault that you want to nationalize this. This is once again a step that is strong and well-functioning, and I am not saying that it will provide public care, but community care. Therefore, this part is incomprehensible to me and it is unacceptable for them to go in this direction, and this part of the bill can only be criticised. But all the provisions point in the direction, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are to develop this system, so it is clear to me that a regulation will be designed in such a way that, within the next year and a half, the possibility of this happening smoothly, when it exists, will pass through. It's not a coincidence that they're looking for local governments, it's not a coincidence that they're doing a test, let's just say, stab a tester to see where there's less or more resistance, and how this system can be created. By the way, it would be nice to know your plans, except for the classified plan that Boston Consulting bought for $277 million, so let's go public. Well, let's discuss it. I do not mind that by the way, the American rolling dollar company is preparing for you, you say to all American companies that a rolling dollar company has prepared a study on Hungarian health care. There's no problem with that, but if it's encrypted, let's get your souls on it and unlock your encryption, let's discuss it. By the way, there were places that leaked data, or some people who apologized for saying a lot of things about it. Well, it didn't have much good in it, and it didn't necessarily paint a rosy situation, but it would be nice for the public to know. I asked Minister Pintér to make this public. Let's have an open debate about it. Look, I'm not the one to discuss this, I'm an opposition representative, I'm not even a doctor, I don't even know what kind of doctor to discuss it with. And I don't care what's in it, I care about the profession, the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the nurses, the MESZK, for example, or people working in the rescue, for example, would be interested in how their field of expertise will be transformed. So this is the other thing, which is very important, which is a deficiency in the fact that you are bringing in various legislative amendments, most of them are okay with the digital transition that we have always welcomed, which is something that can be accepted, I would add, in 2015 I thought I was one of the few opposition representatives who welcomed the development of the EEST. They didn't even call him EEST at the time. We welcomed that there will be a digital space and there will be one of those, XXI. It is a real service of the century, which helps the state to function otherwise. But what I see, Mr Secretary of State, and let me put it this way, I still do not see the usable side of this digital system and reassure me that they have at least moved in this direction so that they can analyze it fairly. Because when I was at NEAK's predecessor in health economics training, what I had to do was to put existing paper and pdf documents into databases manually, because the system wasn't even ready to draw data rows from existing scans. Health data that would have served us well to help us with health funding could not be properly analysed. We stood there in 2015-16, and there was nothing to do with it. I hope that something has now been changed on these, because if there is a possibility and progress somewhere, which can be useful, as is otherwise used in many places in this type of big data data, it is fair to analyse and improve public care. And what do we see compared to that? We don't see any progress here, but you took over the hospitals, and the state debt grew the same way. I simply notice that we have talked in vain about the fact that XXI. Health and decent health in Hungary in the first century, every year we get almost further away from all of this, and it does not help the situation either, and it also needs to be stated, beyond the fact that, let's say, they have an uneven relationship with professional representatives, that once again they have the management of the health sector in a monster ministry. Well, I can't imagine a bigger hunch on a minister's back than having social administration, education, health care, law enforcement and everything else on his shoulders. I should have found a real solution, and I know that the establishment of a governance structure depends on the Prime Minister and the winning governing parties, and I respect that, but I should have found a solution to that: if there was a crisis area, there is a difficult developing area, a cost-intensive area, a technology-intensive area, it should have an independent sectoral manager, have an independent minister. And I know, Mr. Secretary, you'd be more pleased to have a self-employed Ministry of Health. They could do much more serious work, simply because they wouldn't have to fit in with a hundred and twenty topics as a plus one subject by transforming health care, but you could focus on your own business. [[14.40]] And then it wouldn't be a drag at OKF, for example, that the BM guys are on the right line now, or the BM guys aren't on the right line, that the BM guys are taking public procurement to IT, or not, and they're having an affair with Sándor Pintér and what they're having with the State Secretary, because that's not normal. It's normal to let the profession work fairly. That is why we have said it, and this is also our consistent position, that there should be a core of health across party policy in which there is consensus. In this, we could also find consensus with the Fidesz people and develop health care fairly. Overall, in the matters contained in the bill, how the conditions of the death examination and the condition of the death test are being adapted, I am not only seeing what our fellow Member Pesti said, that when death occurs in public areas, and ambulances arrive, why an extra doctor should be called, but also that there must be some way to deal with that situation, and says, Mr Secretary of State, that, if I see wrong, the emergency care given, starting on the emergency line of basic care, very often, our countrymen who died in their homes had to make the primary death determination in general medical care. Now they are most likely replaced by rescue workers and rescue workers, so very common and unfortunate morning deaths usually occur around 3-4 o'clock in the morning in order to help those who die in their homes. If it's any help, help the rescue workers. We are not going to argue with this, just as we are not arguing that I think it is not about protecting non-smokers, but it is about protecting smokers, because it is about getting the smoker to quit and put down this very harmful habit, because the protection of non-smokers can be done in a completely different way, for example by educating people, by educating them to live in a healthy way. The fact that you locked the tobacco products away from young people in a store alone didn't solve the situation. This must therefore be done not primarily to protect non-smokers, but to prevent further harm to the health of smokers. I would also like to add here, and as a criticism has already been said, as the development of anti-smoking and smoking cessation regulations on national tobacco shops has begun, everyone expected that the prevalence of smoking in our country would continue and be stable, but we can see that this has stopped. They're putting that at 32 percent, 31,8 percent. Of these, 28 percent are regular tobacco stewards, and perhaps such a habitatual, so casual smokers are the remnants, who very rarely smoke. But a substantial, very serious reduction has now been impossible for the government to achieve in recent years. So I think we should go beyond thinking that liquid tobacco products, the vaporizing products, have also been forced into tobacco stores, how we can substantially reduce the proportion of existing smokers. I would add that we are putting the prevalence of this at this rate of 32 percent, which is 5 percent elsewhere, and a lot of countries have been able to move forward on this. So, all in all, I'm sorry. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I thank you for your patience, Mr President, but I thought that was part of the current issue. The salad law is eligible, less eligible, and we will inform you of our position later. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-04-12-104	Thank you, Congressman László György Lukács. I now give the floor to Mr István Szabadi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Mi Hazánk group, who will speak about the platform. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, The bill before us is the next stage in building a hierarchy of command law enforcement, which, as a continuation of the health reform launched in November last year, will achieve the government's centralization efforts in all areas of health. For many years, the government has pushed and pushed the reform of health care. The operational tribe, which was set up at Covid's time, was practically led by Mr. Minister of Interior, until after the elections in 22 he received the entire health sector. In it, Prime Minister, you see the guarantee of health regulation. Dear fellow Members, The Hungarian Movement also considers it necessary to reform health in a comprehensive way, but we do not agree with the way it is implemented and its content. The government has spent only one week in social reconciliation of this bill and has not reported its results. Both the November and the current legislative proposals ignore the presentation of the government's long-term health concept. We do not know what steps it intends to take to promote mental and physical health and prevention, which, in our view, should form the basis for health care because of an ageing, disease-conscious society and inadequate nutrition. Once again, they failed to state the details. We've missed this before, asked for it, and waited for it. Essential rules are subsequently created by regulation, making decisions with virtually manual control. For example, the trauma department of St. Rafael Hospital in Zala County is transferred from level 1 to level 2 and the minimum human and physical conditions provided for in the regulation are adapted, which would not otherwise be met. We are particularly concerned that, on the basis of Mr Secretary of State's statement last year, funding for healthcare does not require legislation. Therefore, the Government intends to amend it in its own power. Obviously, he is trying to create or make decisions on funding at regulation level, through ad hoc regulation. That's a huge error factor. According to the current legislation, the basic register of persons who have obtained medical qualifications is the National Hospital Directorate-General, shortening OKF. the National Centre for Public Health is responsible for the registration of healthcare providers with an operating licence, which is shortened to NNK. On the basis of the bill, an electronic registration system for healthcare services has been developed from EU funds, which will include data from all health services providers authorised to operate in public and private care, together with data from specialised supply capacities and core supply zones. The register shall cover rescue activities, patient transporters, distributors of medical aids, personal contributors, health care activities in social institutions, as well as health workers' data. For the latter, the OKŐ will provide data from the basic register and the operation of the system will be the responsibility of NNK. Our Hungary Movement is fundamentally in agreement with the common register of public and private care workers and healthcare providers. However, we object that NNK will certainly use these data to check the separation of public and private supply. Until 2020, hospital departments and clinics were maintained in public care by doctors and nurses working in two or three or four places at the same time as public servants and personal contributors. From 2021, a conflict of interest rule has been laid down by the introduction of a medical service, whereby a person in a medical service cannot provide a health service to the same person who, in the context of private care, has already provided a health service for the same disease. Although there was a promise at that time that the gynecologist profession would be exempt from this, the regulation on this matter has not yet been published. My question to the Secretary of State is what the fate of this regulation is. Due to the drastic rule, the imposition of compulsory Covid vaccination and the withdrawal of private health, about 20,000 doctors and nurses have left public care. Because of the shortage of staff, patient care is in a catastrophic state. Hospital departments, specializations, such as the most recent emergency department at the lip hospital, surgery slips or misses. Waitlists reach the sky, patients either travel farther or, if their wallet permits, choose private care. To this end, doctors and nurses will have their personal contributions by January 2024 and the workers will receive the promised wage increase not from January, but from July this year, which may also lead to terminations. By the end of the year, it became apparent that the separation between public and private health was not successful, at least we do not see this happening. [[14.50]] A draft regulation was issued for social debate, according to which private specialists would only have received proof of their practical training if they had spent 20 hours a month with a public-funded healthcare provider to extend their licence. In the end, the regulation did not enter into force, so the government quasi-accepted that there were not enough doctors in the system, which is why it obviously did not dare to act harder. That is why we do not see the point of the current tightening of the conflict of interest rule. In our view, we do not have enough staff for two parallel health systems in Hungary today, so it is necessary to allow free but regulated transit between the public and the private sector in order to ensure safe patient care. The Health Programme of the Hungarian Movement would establish a professional patient-tour management system based on the direct contractual relationship between the entrepreneurial specialist and the patient. The financial coverage of health services based on real costs would be the patient's social security, and the patient would pay for extra services separately with additional insurance or with the use of a health fund. In the opinion of the Secretary of State, the funding system has been waiting for wrinkles for 15 years. At the end of 2019, the government is 1798/2019. By its decision No.3 ordered the restructuring of the financing system with a view to building on real costs, which would prevent debt from being re-produced. This decision was quietly repealed last November, which I pointed out at the time, and there is no information that it was able to implement in four years, if so, with the result that we did not know anything about it. In view of the epidemic, healthcare institutions received average funding rather than performance funding by February this year, i.e. more money than their performance is justified. However, the debt of hospitals increased: last year, debt of more than HUF 60 billion was accumulated, out of which the government had already settled 55 billion; this year, at the end of February, which means two months, due to the increase in energy prices, the debt of hospitals reached HUF 33.8 billion, before that debt was collected in six months. For many years we have seen and seen that the government has no real plan to stop ever-growing and regenerating hospital debt. At the Conference of the Hospital Association, the Secretary of State presented the plan to transform the funding system, in which they put an end to the reference to patient care, review the system of public procurement, modify the number of sickbeds, re-regulate the annual framework of hospitals. But why isn't this in the present bill? [[Dr. Péter Takács: The decree was published already in December!]] Why isn't he in the show? Why don't you want to regulate funding at the legal level and make it transparent, right? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what this is about! The president's ringing the bell. Dr. István Apáti: There is a general debate, it can be interpreted broadly! Let him decide what he wants to say. Intercoms.]]
u2023-04-12-106	Don't yell, please. Go on, Congressman. A little peace, please. [[It's ringing.]]
u2023-04-12-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to the bill, access rights will be clarified in the Electronic Health Service Space, ESZT, in order to monitor health care more effectively. Among other things, it will monitor compliance with the rule of conflict of interest for the separation of public and private care, and that private providers upload health care data to the EES. Our health data are sensitive personal data, so-called special data, and I have also indicated this earlier, so we do not agree that patients can only set access restrictions in the context of digital self-determination, and it is not possible to delete existing data. It is worrying that from January this year, the Ministry of Interior has taken over the task of running the ESZT from OKFŐ, because during the war emergency, the operator can provide data on our health data in a way that is suitable for identification, for example, in the European Health Data Space. However, there is also a question of whether there has been such a provision, for example, for market participants, and if so, it had a financial impact. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the bill, the competence of the rescue officers will be increased: the paramedics who have completed the death test will be entitled to assume that death occurred naturally or not naturally. They will also fill out the documentation on this, which means additional tasks and responsibilities that have so far been borne by doctors, so in the future it will be untenable for the paramedics to be paid professional wages, i.e. earning much less than doctors, but their task will be more; this may even lead to terminations. We also disagree with the fact that ETT was set up instead of the Medical Chamber. [[Sic!]] The court cannot change its decision in an ethical procedure, because a serious fine can be imposed for an ethical offence, and it is therefore absurd not to challenge the decision in court. We also object to the fact that, in the future, an organized meeting or event with the presence of two persons, instead of three, is an event. It's more tragic, and I wouldn't characterize it any more. But there are other weird things here. According to the bill, free-service healthcare activities will not be carried out as an individual undertaking. This is particularly interesting, which will make certain professions, such as substitute pharmacists, completely impossible, in the case of 41/2007. According to the provisions of the EYM Regulation, professional staff may be employed in public pharmacies in employment or in occupation. The entry into force of the proposed rule further increases the shortage of numbers in pharmacists. This effort also points to a way of thinking that does not want to help care but rather hinders it, but we do not know what interest it is in. In our view, the marketing and product exit facilitations planned to be introduced in the pharmaceutical law are not for the benefit of patients, but rather for the benefit of manufacturers, Big Pharma. However, in the case of medicinal products authorised for placing on the market in Hungary, which are authorised in international procedures for the first time for five years, the date of renewal may be earlier than five years. In such cases, OGYI should accept the experience of other Member States with regard to the safe use of the medicinal product. There are also parts of the bill that are obviously welcome and indeed intended for improvement. For example, he had at least withdrawn me from the intention of nationalising specialist clinics until the municipal elections. In this regard, the Ministry of Interior stated that for the time being there is no decision that the State would definitely take over the specialist clinics, only collecting data, so that the municipalities would hand over the specialized clinics in their possession to the State. Unfortunately, we do not see that the state is justified, but I would like to clarify that the two-thirds government of Fidesz-KDNP would be more careful than the municipalities. We also do not support the sections of the bill on the basis of which the government is handing over the right of maintenance of state-owned urban hospitals, related state-owned real estate and parts of the business free of charge to public trust foundations with a public health mission. We are particularly concerned that, for example, Siklós Hospital Nonprofit Kft. The Hungarian State purchased its exclusive ownership last year for HUF 1.8 billion, and with the bill this part is transferred free of charge to the Foundation of the University of Pécs. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I can see that time has passed. Overall, the Hungarian Movement considers this amendment to be an extremely incomplete proposal and an inability to solve the complex problem and funding of health care. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-12-108	Thank you very much, Congressman István Szabadi. Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy, lead speaker for the LMP Group. [[15.00]]
u2023-04-12-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Mr Secretary of State said in his exposé that there is indeed a fine-tuning in the field of health, and it is indeed here that proposals for half-reform in different areas are coming, and then fine-tunings, and then a little more changes, and then again fine-tunings have been quoted for about the last year. And when I, along with my fellow opposition Members, am calling on the Government and the Health Secretary-General where the major changes are, for example, our fellow Member Nacsa is asking us why we are asking for this; and it has also been said by Fidesz Members that this is not about why we are talking about this. But we are talking about this because there is a need for major changes in the area of health, and we say this not only in vain, not only on the basis of everyday experiences, but on the basis of any international survey, comparison, on the basis of Hungarian health statements, research and surveys, generally on the state of health of the Hungarian population. After all, the main questions always need to be asked about the health status of the Hungarian population and how the Hungarian health system can help, how it can prevent or treat diseases. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And from this point of view, it is certainly a serious statement, which is true today that the state of health of the Hungarian population is very low compared to the country's potential, compared to the development of the Hungarian society or economy, so it is below what we would be able to do; and it is also lagging behind in comparison with other EU countries, for example, the number of preventable deaths is very, very high. This is, in effect, double the EU average if expressed in a standardised ratio by age, as the statements state. Indeed, such important questions are how waiting lists, booking lists in Hungary, the relationship between public and private health, which is also dealt with by this law. In general, the main question is who will cure you: in 5-10-15 years, where will you become a doctor, where will you become a general doctor, a specialist, how will the financing of Hungarian health care even develop? And this is a very important issue, I think, because it is basically an underfunded health care, and this underfundedness is a number of problems. The health system is creaking, there are capacity problems, there are shortages, there are medical shortages, there are long waiting lists, which the bill before us does not involve additional resources, not with significant changes, but with various administrative, bureaucratic changes, and I am trying to address here in a subtle way, so they are practically absolving and absolving what can be done. These administrative changes are typically tightening up, limiting, building up a system of compulsions. Obviously, we need to be strict when we talk about state systems, and these systems need to be kept together, but it is very clear that because of the low funding and chronically low years, I am going to mention how this is going to work a little later, because there are few doctors, so they can't fill the missing practices by trying to involve extra doctors in the system, because there are no extra doctors, but they've redrawn the practices from above. If it's about changing the on-call system, obviously they can't bring new doctors into the system, but they're working with the existing personnel, then we need to get the GPs to take care of it. And getting GPs to take care of you can be achieved with various coercive measures, restrictions, and rigor rather than, say, motivation, with additional resources. The evolution of resources has therefore been said here, and I say that this is chronically low. This is the case and I say the latest figures for the HCSO, obviously the figures for the past 1-2 years are not yet included, according to the latest data, this is 7.3 percent if you look at the total health funding; of which, the state funding is 5.2 percent. So this 5.2 percent is very, very low. If we look at it, on average, in the European Union, countries spend 10.9 percent of the EU-27 average on health, but this also includes public and private health, but their public funding is also much higher than the low Hungarian 5.2 percent. It is always said here in the speeches before me that this government, i.e. the Fidesz government, spends much more on health than the governments before 2010. I am usually the last in the list of speakers, if you look at the keynote speeches, I always contradict these figures. Well, not because I'd have the honor to defend the pre-2010 situation, but we should be on the ground of factuality in such a professional debate. Well, if we are on the ground of factuality, we can see that this government has withdrawn funds from health care since 2010, because this 5.2 percent has only jumped to 5.2 in the last 1-2 years, which was chronically less than 5 percentage points of funding, i.e. the financing of GDP-to-GDP ratio of 4.5-4,6-4.7,7, while the ratio of public funding was constantly above 5 percentage points before 2010. And by the way, I'm just quoting the 2008-09 crisis and it's down to 4.9 percent, so it's barely below 5 percentage points. This should also be noted for the sake of fact, I think. Besides, we don't have to go that far, there's Austria with its 11.5 percent health funding. Here, various ministers, János Lázár or Minister Tibor Navracsics, also said that we will reach the level of Austria in a few years. Well, I ask you, for example, when will we achieve this 11.5 percent Austrian health funding; and we really do not have to go far, because it is a neighbouring country. What I would like to talk about, and the bill also deals with it, is the kind of tightening that was introduced earlier, and this is the rigid separation of public and private health. We also think that LMP also thinks that this is a rigid separation. When it is basically a lack of capacity, a lack of resources health system, it is not certain that such rigid separation of these systems or subsystems and, in practice, the prohibition or restriction of such systems, on which they are going to go a little further, because these conflicts of interest will be examined by public maintainers or public hospitals through databases, that they exist and, if they exist, they will also try to eliminate them by administrative means. So my question, in addition to criticism, is: by so rigidly separating these two sectors, what do you actually think, Mr. Secretary, what do you think you will gain from this? So what are the benefits and health benefits from this? Compared to the state that if we did not have this rigid separation and, from this point of view, a tightening of the bill before us, to go further than this tightening up, what would result in health, prevention, healing and treatment? So how will this amendment be in the interest of patients? If we are talking about private health, what we are seeing is basically a very, very developing and dynamically developing sector, which I do not consider a good thing, because I believe in a strong public health system, because I think it can guarantee all citizens high-quality health care, and in the case of appropriate conditions and adequate funding. Obviously, people go to private health out of compulsion and on the basis of various motivations, because they cannot find their calculations, trust, the right doctor there are very different reasons for public health and they are forced into private health. So it's a choice, but it's also a question of coercion. We know that private health benefits in a hundred billion-dollar scale from patients, diseases, and when we say that, and by the way, the Fidesz government has said this earlier, that health cannot be a business, then it is a thousand-billion-dollar business. How will they reduce this and bring patients back to public health? I am also asking because one of the important points of the amendment concerns this. Is this intention, for example, reflected in this amendment? And aren't you afraid that the tendency to leave their practice, leave their state post and go to private health will continue? How will this proposal change that? [[15.10]] This is therefore a very unfair situation, as people are forced into private health, because obviously those who have money, who can finance it, buy these services, and who do not know it, I quote that public health remains, which is often not able to meet the needs properly. For example, there are waiting lists. The recent news on which I see the Minister of State's nonverbal signal that the news on the top three longest waiting lists is nearly 32,000 patients, but a total of 40,000 people are waiting for surgery in hospitals, said the state health insurance company. For example, the number of frequently quoted hip replacement surgeries is reported to be 7424 people waiting for hip replacement surgery. I checked the NEAK numbers, if not for the previous month, but maybe January-February data are available, it's about an exact number. So, Secretary of State, do you confirm or deny that hospitals are working with waiting lists of nearly 40,000 people, or are there so many people waiting for intervention? We've been discussing the nationalization of one of our favorite topics, specialized clinics. I always ask the Secretary of State how this process, what is the situation, nationalizes the specialist clinics. I have a written question about this which, by the way, is due to be answered by the government at midnight tomorrow, but I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to advance the answer, give me a little advance on this response, so how is this nationalisation process? For example, I have experienced and my fellow Member Lukács mentioned a specific example of a specific settlement, a specific specialist clinic, but let me mention the Újpest specialization centre, which I was responsible for even as deputy mayor since 2019 that we were able to reduce waiting lists in Újpest, we call it a list of reservations in case of specializations; we were able to resolve with organization, smart solutions and management changes, and obviously with the construction of new doctors and new capacities. Municipal resources, various investments, developments and operating grants have played a role in the construction of these capacities. Therefore, it is feared that if the municipalities are taken away from their institutions, specialist clinics, the waiting lists may continue to grow. So please, Mr Secretary of State, reflect on this as well. To sum up once again, I think that there is a system of lack of capacity, lack of resources, which is facing very, very serious challenges from the point of view, and obviously this is a trend, international, world trend, that the demand for health care is constantly increasing, but it is absolutely natural, because we want to live as long as possible, to stay healthy as possible, to prevent the emergence of diseases as quickly as possible. The other challenge facing these systems is essentially due to the lack of resources environment, the lack of capacity, the ageing medical community, the fact that there are fewer and fewer doctors. So what I see is that they are really trying to deal with these problems through fine-tunings, which, on the other hand, fine-tunings will not be enough to address the problems of this system. If they could not involve more money in substance, if we could not reach the financing of the European Union, and I had not yet told you that in the last 5-10-15 years, serious hundreds and thousands of billions of forints had not arrived in health care, which could have arrived, for example, if the 2008 funding had been kept in the system at GDP-related levels, so without such resources, I am afraid that they would not be able to deal with the real serious diseases and problems of Hungarian health. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-04-12-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! I welcome you all with love, and we will continue our work. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. As no one made a two-minute speech, they came forward in writing. I give the floor from the DK Group to Mr Zoltán Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We haven't seen each other that long, so we're going to continue our discussion where we left off at the Social Welfare Committee meeting the other day. A man chews his way through such a salad law, and there is an emotion in it, so I have one, not one, but more. In fact, I was thinking that this salad law could be given a completely different title, for example, that the abduction of health care, the persecution of doctors and health professionals, despite the cold spring, continues to run smoothly. There has now been little, disproportionately and undeservingly, discussion of the fact that half a dozen hospitals and their 25 real estates would be entrusted in the future by the government to universities maintained by the trust fund. So if we look behind the lines, we can say that the government is playing into the law another significant asset, so that the maintenance rights of six rural hospitals, which have so far been state-owned and have a separate budget, as well as the properties of those hospitals, are transferred to three universities and transferred to public-interest trust foundations that maintain universities in the middle of the summer. It goes without saying that, together with the transfer of the institutions' maintenance rights, the associated movable property elements and even real estate will be provided free of charge to foundations operating universities, and the new maintenance universities will also be holders of any authority permits, as will the rights and obligations of the related EU projects. According to the justification, what we can read in the salad law before us is due to the unity of health management. Now, we all know that this is not the case, because in fact, ladies and gentlemen, this is just another open and unscrupulous transfer of public community wealth into private hands, and this is nothing more than the continuation of the construction of the parallel state of NER. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Oh, my God!]] I can see you smiling, Mr. Secretary. The fact is that very few people in this country are smiling at these events, but I see that you are still increasing these numbers, and it is quite shocking that, while the health government declared an open war against the largest medical organization, we Hungarians are dropping like flies. The government can't and doesn't want to solve basic supply deficiencies, but sometimes it seems to me that it doesn't even seem to be noticed, while it was mentioned at the meeting of the Committee on Welfare, but I have to talk about this already, the Hungarian National Anticancer Programme, written by Miklós Kásler in 2018, acknowledged that health is failing, that not only in the EU, but also among OECD countries, most of the 32-33 thousand people die of cancer every year. We see it, and perhaps also Mr Secretary of State has acknowledged that this cancer situation has not improved much in the country in recent years. In 12 years, the number of people in need of treatment has increased by 6,000 in men and 8,000 in women, which, apart from skin tumors, means mainly lung cancer in men and especially breast cancer in women, but in the last decade and a half, the number of women with lung cancer has increased by a different factor. As I said to you at the committee meeting, Mr Secretary of State, according to the document, this is not said by us, politicians of the opposition, but by the Hungarian national anticancer programme that you have drafted, if you do not put enough emphasis on prevention, every thousand boys in the next few years will not live to age 75 because of 313 newborns and 149 malignant tumors of the same number of girls. It is amazing that while the government and this has been said here already deny the fact of the waiting lists and, according to the government, who claims that the waiting lists exist, it doesn't look at the whole thing, it simply doesn't see things correctly, the facts deny all of this. These shocking figures and facts have just been made public by NEAK, which has just been mentioned by the Member who spoke before me. I don't want to repeat it, but these are facts. [[15.20]] And it doesn't depend or depend on a doctor getting more patients in line than his colleague. These are numbers that can't be explained. Let us admit that health care has been in a very bad situation for a very long time. In the last ten years, the health status of Hungarians has deteriorated, and obviously this could have happened because the health situation in Hungary has also deteriorated. If you like, under the Orbán government, the Hungarian health care lives on its final days. Despite all this, you need to see this clearly, as everyone sees, and the problem is not that we see it here in Parliament, but mostly those tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, who are desperately trying to get into a waiting room every day, to see if they ever get to a doctor, or if they're desperate to make a phone call at all, to have someone to pick it up and give them an appointment, but these times are usually not for tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, but, in many cases, years or months from now, well, they are saying this, they feel that this is the case. But what do we see compared to that? That, for some inexplicable reason, Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér thinks that the most important problem in disintegrating health care is the definition of medical aesthetics. I think it's drama, and there's so much to laugh about. What I am saying is that the world of deep dictatorship is worth mentioning, that after the adoption of the proposal, of course, health authorities can collect more detailed and more accurate data about doctors, such as this, and it has already been mentioned that practitioners are involved in the new on-call system, as well as the age and possibly the quality of the machines they use to heal them. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You may not think so, but the majority of Hungarian society sees this as being nothing more than a drama, what is happening here in health care. It's a surreal charade, an act of surreal, sick government, and it's a drama. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-12-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr István Apáti of the Group of our country. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The general debate on a package of proposals on health will also allow for wider extension or broad interpretation. To tell you the truth, I'm very pleased that you represent the Ministry of Interior and the government today, because this way I can bring all the cuddling and criticism of my hometown into your neck, because you are the main cause of the problem. I am referring to the on-call system, which you probably have no idea about here in Budapest, you do not know what kind of avalanche you have started, and you do not know what tragic consequences your actions or omissions have from 1 March, perhaps today, and there will be in the next period. In addition to the fact that even the most extremely biased Fidesz representative cannot say that there are no waiting lists in Hungarian health care, when an ultrasound examination is required, a blood test is to be held for months, and we cannot talk about more complicated, complex tests, or about the appointment of medium or severe surgeries, because they are of an annual scale, it is undeniable that you are pushing people, not involuntary, but willing them towards private health care, thereby implementing one of the shameful points of the SZDSZ when public health care is being reduced and forced into private health. It is undeniable truth, I think that everyone from the East to the Western border knows that those who do not have enough money and contact in Hungary today, so in a combined set of conditions, either die of a more serious disease within a short time, or at least have a much worse chance of healing than a wealthy and well-connected countryman. It is also a big question, many of you may not ask, because you are not dared to be asked many times by your own voters why we pay social security contributions, why they withdraw, if I remember correctly, 18,5 percent of our wages for something that we either get nothing or little. Why don't you leave at least some of the money needed to use private health for the Hungarian people? Why would they sacrifice our salary with social security contributions, when we basically get nothing in return for this - front hospitals in the Don-turn? Therefore, doctors, nurses, not health care professionals are not responsible, and even they are only praised for the fact that, despite all the difficulties and 33 years of retirement, they still carry the Hungarian health care on their shoulders. Thank you to those who have not yet gone abroad, who have not left us, and in the midst of such madness, they have yet to undergo healing. But for what I have asked for here today, the decisive thing is that on-call care has entered into force since 1 March. Let me give you some specific information on the poorest walk in the country, Mr Csenger, honourable Secretary of State, because it is likely that 350 kilometers is far enough for you to know nothing or not to know about reality. I'm going to tell you that what you have in mind is what you look like in the poorest neighborhood in the country where I was born. It seems, Mr Secretary of State, that from 10 p.m. on a working day until 8 a.m. 30 000 people in 26 municipalities are provided by a single ambulance with 30 years of equipment or 30 years of age. 26 municipalities: 11 of them belong to the district of Csengeri, the other 15 cover a significant part of the district of White Gyarmat. That's 26 settlements, 30 thousand. From 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m., an ambulance and nothing more. On the same weekend, on public holidays and holidays: from 14 a.m. to 8 a.m. the next morning, this is also the only ambulance available for the Csengeri district, plus the 15 settlements mentioned above. Nor will the medical on-call car be allowed to operate, or may be allowed to, say that the municipality may pay for the maintenance costs, but less and less of the underfunded and bled municipalities are able to do so. Well, the thing is, where, perhaps in other parts of the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, but I could mention districts, districts in almost all counties, Mr. Secretary of State, where there is no proper number of doctors, there is indeed something to do with the situation, but there is no such thing. In the Csengeri district, the situation... you didn't really care what they said about the neighborhood. There are eight doctors in the Chenger district. If they'd let the Csengeri walk work, they'd have solved the 24-hour health care, and they could've done it with a GP. Speak to the mayors there, Mr. Secretary of State, do not look at the Hungarian Ugar from Budapest, but sit in the service car, it does not cost you a penny, drive down to Chenger, talk to the people there, and see how many people have died over the last five or six weeks because of what you have produced. Even the few other good things that made our neighborhood a little more livable, you blew it up from Budapest and ruined it. Do you know how many kilometers from one point to the furthest point in these 26 settlements you have to take, what quality roads, that you have to travel on such high-quality roads that the sow will fall into the pits, into the potholes, because you couldn't even create a normal road network in 13 years? ! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Health bill!]] Ten years out of 13 were governed by two-thirds! We have one ambulance left, Mr. Secretary of State. And there's another problem. For decades, across governments, the time of left-wing government has been struggling for this unfortunate neighborhood, the poorest walk in the country for an ambulance, for one ambulance. I've had two versions over the last few days, weeks, and I've been trying to get in touch with you on this subject. One is that on the horizon, on the horizon, there is no provision for such an ambulance. The other thing is that it is basically available, only the competent Director General, probably not signed by the Director-General of the Rescue Service, could not sign the necessary documents allegedly because the annual operating costs of HUF 70 million could not be incurred. Well, sailors have an amazing idea, a lot of unnecessary, pointless, at least misplaced items in the Hungarian budget, probably also in the Ministry of Interior budget, in case this 70 million forints could be found in this area. And I say this in a way, and you must understand that, honourable members of the government, and be ashamed of yourself for leaving this area to such a fate. [[15.30]] Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county achieved their best results last year. Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county is a gold medalist county from Fidesz-KDNP's point of view, where they achieved their best individual results, where their candidates won individual seats with the highest priority and received the highest number of votes on their national list. The minimum is that if you had a minimum of political correctness or generosity, that, in view of this, and in the last thirty years, the many lost chances, the abstract source, some of the resources transferred to catch up with other areas would be returned to this area by applying the principle of partial equalisation. I could say the whole county, but especially my area of Satmar. Almost everything, almost everything, has been taken away from us, and most of the promised investments will not be built. The promised road constructions will be completed in 25 years, with a 50 percent efficiency. But then the bells are good, then the Matthews are good, then the Szabolcsi are good, and the Satmarians and the Beregans are good, when you have to vote for you so that you can stay as Secretary of State, sir, when you have to help them, when they need help, when they need help, when they need help, they forget about them. They may not dare to play this level in Budapest, because they fear that if there is a rebellion here, it will be in their power. With the poor poor country, you dare to play the exponential value of this, and then we will talk about modern health care and nation-saving and all that, when you cannot properly assemble an on-call system! Maybe we should practice self-criticism. We should practice self-criticism and turn back on this path. It's a politician's greatest virtue if he can see that he's made a mistake and fix his mistake. Plus, it's a matter of making a good decision. It wouldn't cost much money, and it's gonna cost money, but most of all, it's gonna cost a lot of people what you've been telling us. So I would ask, Mr Secretary of State, that I wait for your answer, and I hope that you will address this in particular, because you will closely monitor or follow this response by tens of thousands of voters in our neighbourhood. Because even though you are so pleased with yourself and your colleagues, I suggest you do a very deep examination, a very deep analysis, and change this decision, because you or the mayors of the affected settlements may not dare to tell you, because next year there will be municipal elections, and they will not receive the logo if they dare to tell you the truth. Maybe the medical staff are afraid of getting kicked out, they don't dare tell us that they don't even have ambulances. Let me tell you this, Mr. Secretary. For the 30-year-old ambulance, it could be about a single HUF 3 million, and I would say a lot of it would need to be equipped with a modern monitor and other means to avoid the need to save life by means that might have been used in Noah's time. There's no money for that because you don't appreciate this neighborhood. So I ask you, with all due respect, that our next exchange of views be less tense, so that you may look into this and settle these shortcomings as soon as possible, because of the full technical justification, to provide the paramedics to this area and to bring the existing ambulances' equipment to the right level of age. Thank you very much and I look forward to your meaningful reply. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-12-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Komáromi has applied for another speech from the DK Group. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Some things are a little behind us, and since my fellow Members have returned quite a lot in the comments I have just heard, I would also like to say my own opinion. One of my questions is that in the future, according to the bill, liberal health activities will only be carried out as individual entrepreneurs. I do not understand why this is better than any other kind, but in practice, if I were to be a company or entrepreneur, the same legal framework could be created for it. Another important provision of the bill is that the health authority will provide the State tax and customs authorities with electronic data on the identity and tax number of the healthcare providers in the official register on a quarterly basis. If the State tax and customs authorities find that there is a breach of an obligation to issue invoices or receipts in respect of a particular health service provider, they shall notify the health authority thereof by electronic means. My question would be if the health department were to carry out checks on compliance with the law and the administrative procedure within their competence, this would not be good for it, or there would be some guarantee that there would not be a double penalty for the same infringement, i.e. for both the NAV and the health department. The death test is almost in one place here, and it is also practically related to data processing. I believe that in two years, it was necessary to find out that in the case of the on-call pilot in Hajdú-Bihar County, patients who died during the night hours, weekends and holidays in their homes or non-institutionals, apart from a death examination, so that this was usually the task of the ambulance service, where there was a high-level rescue officer or a paramedic, but the completion of the death report, the reason for death, it is okay to require a medical degree, but I think that in two years there has been some kind of concept of how and how the rescue service will take over this task. But I didn't find any data on that, so I'd like an answer to that. I think that the municipalities are relieved of the burden of the protective service, and I feel a little cynicism in this, because the municipalities, especially the smaller municipalities, have worked a lot in recent years, and have done so in order to have a protective service in their settlement. They'll be given a service apartment, a salary supplement, a wage subsidy, a traffic grant. If we centralize these women now, we'll bring them to county hospitals, how much will this improve the mother and infant protection activities of these small settlements? 'Cause it's one thing to control them professionally, and they've been or should have been controlled, but that's the thing about avoiding these small settlements, I think that's a problem. But I think that there are even large districts in Budapest, where, for example, rural patronesses who have graduated from college and stayed here, have received an apartment from the municipality, if they lose this allowance and this housing opportunity, then I think there will be such problems here too. The development of the districts. Here, too, the municipalities are also relieved of this burden, but I believe that the municipalities must leave some kind of licence, either by law or by municipal law, that if the OKFH's idea of merging the districts or redefining the boundaries of the districts is not the same, then there must be some possibility for the municipality to intervene in this. I give an example in particular: Budapest XI. In its district, in recent years, so many apartments have been built in the area of the Kopaszi dam, it is calculated that almost 20,000 inhabitants will move there or have already moved there. If calculated, this is at least four children's practice and at least eight adult practices. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The mayor is bad.]] The municipality hasn't moved in years because it knows that this thing is going to go into public care. Does the state have some kind of plan for this? If the municipality does not develop and the State will register and develop the districts, there may be problems. [[15.40]] In this way, the property of rural hospitals is actually transferred from public property to foundation property for my tastes. In fact, I do not see any state guarantee that this property is indeed some kind of guarantee of further health care for those settlements. All this time, my problem with this bill is that you're trying to solve or solve things that you've created yourself. This is actually the separation of the private and public system, which, by the way, I consider to be an optimal thing, just not by cutting it in half with a sword. For example, I ask how it will fit into this, if you do not give it to me, I think that logically and realistically, they could bring the free capacity of publicly funded institutions to the market, they could provide a service and otherwise turn their profits back to public funding in the expansion of resources, how this would happen, or how it might happen. I think IT can be done, but if we cut the system so strictly and simply, we have so many doctors, so many nurses, so many assistants, we don't have enough assistants to fill two separate systems with them, so we need to think about this. Again, I think that the use of a bong is not the most pressing problem of Hungarian health care, perhaps it should not have been included in this salad law. Although I haven't smoked in just 68 years, I can't imagine how dangerous that is, but I think that could have been done, it could have been done differently. I think the accents here are wrong. Of course, I was talking about that, and I'm trying to draw attention to what I didn't think was right. I believe that Parliament must end up with a law that can be implemented and will bring health care forward, because I have been working on it for forty or so years again, and I would like to work on it here, within the walls of Parliament for a few more years. But if these critical remarks are received by resentment, and then any amendments to this issue are, to say the least, swept off by the majority of governments without reason, then I believe that responsibility is also for the majority of governments, if this new salad law becomes a law. There will be further anomalies, and we are playing with people's lives and people's health here, and I would like to draw everyone's attention. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2023-04-12-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Takács, Secretary of State, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Péter Takács: Close.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, There have been a lot of comments, some that I will answer personally, and some that I am trying to do together. Thank you, Mr Pesti Imre, for your support. I'm telling you, with regard to the practice of the autopsy, the paramedic can determine the fact of death right now. What is new here is that you can declare the natural or non-natural nature of death, and among other things, especially in the case of a dead man in public areas, where an on-site postmortem should take place within two hours, you can declare that you consider the coronation to be justified at the scene or that the body can be transported. Congressman Zoltán Komáromi objects to the salad form, and many opposed the salad form. In December, we brought a rather large package of laws confirming a health care system. Here in the House, I had a 18.5-hour debate, and I carried about half of it from the Ministry of the Interior, so I happen to be here relatively often. It contained the main directions, the directions. This current bill is not called a legal salad for nothing, there are many minor amendments to the regulation of Hungarian health care, which is due to the fact that this is simply not a monolith and stone-cut system, because things are changing. Medical science is developing, the health service space is developing, digitalisation is taking on an increasing level, and we are increasingly trying to take advantage of both the participants in the care system, who are on the service side and the patients' skills in electronic, smartphone use and computer use, and thus bring them closer to them and make Hungarian health care more transparent. Several objected to the fact that a number of essential elements were not found in the current legal salad. Please, there is a simple explanation for this: here, we are bringing to Parliament questions that require legislation, regulations in a lower legislative hierarchy, and then we will do it in a government decree and a ministerial decree. This is also the increase in wages for health professionals and healthcare workers. The government has already decided on this, so there will be a two-step wage increase for the workers, the first step will take place in July this year, and the second step next March. This will be an increase of more than 50 per cent per individual level for the workers, which is the largest increase in just over a year since the change of regime. But here came the pharmacies of small settlements, the expansion of the professional competences, all of which belong to a lower level of legislation, which is why it is not now included in the bill. The electronic record of data on healthcare providers, I say, is intended to improve patient safety. It's possible to state a policeman, but we've already kept this data, only at the level of the district offices. Now, in the development of the electronic record system for health management, in which many EU and domestic sources have gone, we have reached the level that we can make these databases available, visible and transparent at national level. Is the doctor on duty? It's been stored by the district office. I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable Members and gentlemen to an important point that we have so far provided on-call care in a very fragmented system, within the framework of about 300 companies, most often specialised in on-call organisation. We have seen that this is not good, this is what we have reorganized, a national authority has been given on-call organisation to improve the chances of access for all residents of the country. From this point forward, a national register is required, as NNK as a national authority is issuing the national public non-profit on-call service, the National Rescue Service, the privileges and permissions necessary for the on-call organisation. Unfortunately, there have been repeated repeated false statements and slippages that we have already contradicted in concrete terms during the debate on the previous health law. I'm sorry that they always come up with the fact that 900,000 people are out of basic supply, they're just not true. We also know that the vast majority, more than 70 percent of them below a thousand, could not have been created in today's regulatory environment, because the clear opinion of the profession is that the minimum number of inhabitants that should be organised in one area is 1200. But these slides are over and over again. The fact that the basic vehicle data on ambulances and ambulances and medical vehicles should be made clear is, in my view, a requirement expected by the Authority that, if the legislation requires that a vehicle used for rescue or sick transport is not older than the year in which it is used, it should not be required to turn to another co-author, but rather to have data stored electronically and, where appropriate, to be immediately developed. This also helps the one-stop shop. [[15.50]] On the one-stop shop, I say that there is no loop raised by Mr Komáromi, because the service provider to whom the colleague is going to work already has a NEAK ID. In order for the colleague to obtain an operating licence for that service provider's premises, the OTH asks for the NEAK ID, which I think is okay, because the service provider is perfectly there. So the John Hospital hasn't moved over the past 130 years, has a NEAK I.D., if I want to work at John's Hospital and change my operating license, I'd like it there. There is nothing special about funding, and I say this to Mr Szabadi, too, that we are regulating the issue of funding at government regulation level, this is the Government Decree 43/1999, so it is not new that we have been regulating it in the form of government decrees for more than 20 years, because it has been so before that, in fact, since we have actually brought in more than 25 years ago, it has been regulated by a government decree. The detailed rules are in the NEAK financing rule book, so it will be the same for the indicator system as in the specialist care. The main definitions of hbcs in professional care are contained in the Financing Government Regulation, and the rule book is how to classify individual BNOs and OENOs that indicate medical activity, which has been included in a Ministerial-level regulation, the NEAK Financing Rulebook, so we also follow the same regulatory technique here. I would like to thank Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa for pointing out the point. In part, I have referred here to the fact that cases requiring legislative regulation are being placed at the level of the law. I would also like to say to Mrs Zita Gurmai that this is not a reform concept, but a package of legal salads which necessarily adjust the regulation of the supply system to everyday life. There have been a lot of waiting lists among opposition representatives, and I think they're trying to make a political product out of this. I would also like to say to Mrs Gurmai that it is now easy to refer to the waiting list, because we do have it, not at the time of their administration. We started this waiting list, central waiting list management in 2013, until then it was a plaid notebook, hospital dice booklet, complete intransparency, and who knows who in these dice booklets has very strict rules in place and how they have come forward. The central waiting list must be kept in order to be transparent and transparent, and it must not take place in exchange for, say, consideration or consideration to be passed on these waiting lists. Otherwise, there are no 13 but 22 lists at the moment, because our regulations are so strict that each institution where the waiting time for a particular type of surgery exceeds 60 days! You're required to keep a waiting list. Just for comparison, because several people have highlighted cataract and hip replacement data, let me give you some data on this. First of all, when we started the central management of the waiting lists in 13th year, we recorded the completely uncontrollable and non-transparent numbers in the hospital cube booklets in July 12th. Please, there were 70 170 people in these dice booklets during socialist government. Now that we are over a very serious pandemic that has, by the way, extended waiting times everywhere in Europe, we are now at 39 000 people. So there were twice as many people on the waiting list at the time of socialist governance in a transparent way as in ours. [[Dr. László György Lukács: They went to private health!]] It's like we're transparent. I'm also going to talk about private health. Some numbers. Cataracts: 28 600 people were waiting for cataract surgery during the socialist government, and we managed to get this number down to 19 in the vicinity of 8 thousand, and now 12 600 people are waiting. There were 11,000 people waiting for a hip replacement during the Socialist Government, now, after a very severe epidemic wave, 77,000 people are waiting for it. The average waiting time for cataracts, when we started the waiting list program, was 90 days, otherwise it was very radically reduced to 19 and now only 50 days is only 50 days! So it's half as much as we had to wait for him during socialist governments. The same number for hip replacements is 180 days and 115 days respectively. So we're better off than when we started doing this in the health field. And let's do an international lookout. According to the latest OECD data, cataract surgery is currently required in Italy for 53 days, we have 50 days, 60 in Denmark, 65.5 in Sweden, 84 in the United Kingdom, 107.7 in Spain, 118 in Poland. The same numbers for hip replacements are: 75.8, Finland 83.1, Hungary's 115 days, the UK's 118, Sweden's 133, Portugal 154, Norway's 170. So you can try to create a political product, only if you look at the slickness of the numbers and the facts, it doesn't come out well for you, it's us. That's the thing. The separation of public and private care and transparency are in the patient's interest. So as much as we try to suggest that this is detrimental to the patient, this, please, is beneficial to the patient. A clarification has now been included, as we have received a signal from professional organisations that if someone had a patient years earlier, we should do a distribution, at all, when public and private care can be mixed in some way, and here there is a professional consensus on drawing a line and not taking into account a supply identity after a certain period of time. No aid was ever available for an orphaned drug, a non-subsidised product. So now it's not a good idea to scare voters with it, and otherwise, it's a serious slip. The fact is that individual fairness requires a medical prescription because it requires a medical prescription and a medical opinion. We push patient care towards private health, some say, including Congressman László György Lukács. Let me give you some of the numbers on this one that will describe the situation. The share of private health in the number of outpatients with regard to supply events is 12 per cent, more than one third of which is covered by PCR tests carried out in private microbiology laboratories over the last two years, i.e. one third of which is private-PCR, private-PCR. This means, therefore, that around 8 percent of outpatient events occur in private suppliers. This is much less than inpatient care, including one-day surgical cases, with a share of 4 percent of private care, 96 percent of supply events in public health, and if we take out one-day surgery, about half of that, so about 2 percent of the inpatient cases that the population uses in private care, 98 percent of it is provided by the Hungarian state, regardless of what you claim. They demand economies of scale at the same time and provide examples of self-governments operating beyond force, which take care to a settlement, where appropriate, which, let's say, the size of the population does not justify. As an information note, the material of the Boston Consulting, also raised and cited, is one of many decision preparation materials, which you can mystify. We worked on 8-10 of these materials, which Boston Consulting, for example, provided. This is a pre-decision paper from an international company, which is well-versed in the organisation of care, which does not reflect the government's opinion, because the government selects the solutions from the materials that we see feasible here in Hungary in the present social, social and economic circumstances. [[16.00]] I am glad that Congressman is a great friend of digitalization. That means we're alike. With regard to the analysis of digital data, I am very pleased to inform you that since 2015-16 it has been quite a long time, for example, that the ESZ was created in 2017, and that more and more modules are providing structured data. Fortunately, we were able to base it on this during the Covid epidemic, when we knew exactly what intensive Covid and not Covid capacity was available in which hospital in the context of daily online data. I wouldn't really respond to the claims of the independent ministry, but you can see that I represent the Ministry of the Interior on all matters of health. Luckily, Mr. Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, gives me quite a free hand on health issues, so I'll be at your disposal anytime. But anyway, the Home Office always tries to play with the cards. That is why we invited the leaders of the factions before submitting the December Act. I was sorry to see DK, Jobbik and Momentum were not represented at this meeting. So much for seeking consensus. I hope the party's position has changed in the meantime. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Would our opinion have mattered?]] Member István Szabadi once again draws my attention to a government decision that was issued in 2018 or 19 and was withdrawn at the end of last year. We have withdrawn this, and you know it, because you have been browsing the changes in the financing regulation 43/99 at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, which already contains the principles on which this Government decision called for us. And what are these? Inpatient funding should be based on the following principles. Firstly, financing proportionate to the population to be provided. In English, hospital frameworks must be set up in such a way that each institution can receive the resources needed to manage the population to be provided, and each supply event must be financed at a value, in accordance with the cost. We also took the first step in this direction, because if you have read the government decree, you know that most of it is based on class control data operated by OKFŐ's predecessor five years ago, so the hbcs adjustment was done by having five years of experience in calculating control coverage in each profession. The next step is case-level control, and this will be introduced with the selection of six or eight sample hospitals and the introduction of a single circle of articles, expected from the second half of this year. The patient can't delete from the ESTE. It's not a coincidence. The patient has the right to read because who controls that, where appropriate, the data that is relevant for his treatment has not accidentally been erased by someone who may have harmed himself. So these data, in accordance with the general data management patient documentation rules, have a mandatory storage period. There are documentation that must be stored both on paper and electronically for seventy years. It's either patient safety or health statistics, or it's for scientific research purposes. This should be provided by authorised healthcare providers and/or administrative bodies. Personal identification data may only be provided in cases and within the limits laid down by law, e.g. in the case of a priority epidemiological interest. The Covid period provided an example of this when the quarantine had to be ordered. It's a criminal offence to release such data for private purposes, to sell it in any case. That doesn't happen in the ESTE. If the Member is aware that, anywhere else, personal data relating to health has been disclosed, sold without the consent of the person, I urge him to file a complaint and assist the authority in its work. They're clinics. Several people asked me, and I am now answering specifically to Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy, because I forgot to answer the last minute. We will bring our proposal to the government by 30 April. The survey has been carried out. In December, I asked the National Assembly to provide me with real and credible accounting-based economic data on the operation of specialist clinics. We had medical records for the NEAK, by the way. These economic data have been received by OKHA, and they are analysed. By the way, the OKFO also asked the municipalities how willing they would be to hand over their clinics. A summary of this will be carried out by the Ministry of Interior and submitted to the Government by 30 April. So the decision will then be made, and this will be made by the government. With regard to hospitals transferred to universities and their property, I would reassure the honourable Members and gentlemen that they will not receive these properties for free, but together with the provision of a public task. Therefore, they receive the infrastructure where they can carry out the public service task in addition to the public service mission, so this is the compensation for the public service mission. We were talking about the waiting list. The lack of a doctor is coming up again. Although human policy measures were not included in the bill, let me get this straight. I had fluctuations data in my hands at the end of 2021 and 2022. On 31 December 2022 there are 1424 more doctors in the state system than at the end of 2021, and 1758 more professionals. So we're doing something right when colleagues vote with their feet to enter the public care system, because government measures over the last few years mean a perspective both financially and professionally for health care workers. We will not stray from this path, as we have already talked about the laborer's wage increase. We can analyse GDP data for 2019 and 20, but there has been an increase in medical wages on an historic scale since then. Besides, healthcare has received a number of sources, even last year more than HUF 200 billion goes to health care, and more than HUF 1600 billion compared to 2010. So from 1200 billion to 2800 billion, the E-Fund's health budget has increased, which speaks for itself. We fully agree with some of the professional proposals made by Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, for example, that, in addition to waiting lists, a banner is also important for outpatient registration lists. This is the purpose of our EFOP development. Within the framework of the ESTE we create the so-called health window, everyone will have access to their most important recipes, referrals, dates through an app that can be installed on their own mobile phone. This system has been practically tested in the Covid period, which means that every profession, every specialist clinic and every hospital will be opened within a year. The first 30 hospitals will be running on April 30, the next milestone will be the end of August, when we turn on another 40 institutions, and we want every specialist clinic with a capacity of more than 200 hours to join in within a year. I say to Mr Zoltán Varga, although he is no longer here, that the government does not deny the fact of waiting lists, and indeed we are pleased that they are seen in a transparent way, unlike your government, when 70,000 people were written in hospital dice. We're glad you're able to do this transparently and clearly, unlike you. I would like to make the following service communications to Mr István Apáti. I am a bakony child, not a Budapest child, and when we talk about this, let's consider this. I've been in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County three times in the last year and a half. By the way, there are very cute people there who told me that you in Pest can't imagine that there are 30 villages here, and we still don't have 20,000 people, and there are 30 kilometers between the two villages. [[16.10]] I told them that you people in the Great Plain couldn't imagine that my village in Bakony and the village next door were 15 kilometers away, and we were going 46 kilometers away, because there's a mountain in the middle. So I'm particularly sensitive to these geographical conditions. We have also tried to design the on-call care system everywhere in such a way that we can carry out necessity-based planning. And the fact that there's a doctor's appointment from 4:00 to 10:00 in the afternoon means that we're going to provide a better access than the previous system. The 1830 phone number is answered by a professional and not by a... [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] Congressman, you can't be serious. [[Dr. István Apáti: Yes!]] You can't be serious.
u2023-04-12-118	Congressman!
u2023-04-12-119	Every time we tested the 1830 phone number, it wasn't just me, my friends, relatives, that didn't happen in 60 minutes, because it's the same system as 112. So the system that matches 112, so after a few rings, one of the dispatchers is gonna pick it up. Don't make any claims that aren't true. What I would like to say is, fortunately, we have replaced over a thousand ambulances in our government renewal program, unlike the previous governments, which are virtually none. Car 24 is out there, Szabolcs-Szatmár 24; a patient-watching monitor, the most important motor suctioner for patient safety, is a Mark IV balloon. Both cars had a tensile and pelvic belt change in two or three years. So the fact that there are 30-year-olds again is not true. The Ambu balloon, medical bag, defibrillator, fully modern devices needed to breathe, were also replaced. [[Dr. István Apáti: Definitely not.]] And what you're thinking might be the booze of the rescue station. But I'm also happy to report that the rescue station renovation program continues. [[Dr. István Apáti: That's not true!]] which the civilian government has begun, and in the framework of which we have renovated 107 rescue stations in the previous years, and 31 have been established beyond that. I thank the honourable Members and gentlemen very much for listening to me. I think we've been trying to give you a professional answer beyond the subject of the bill. In return, I ask the honourable Members to support the bill that the Ministry of the Interior has put on the table of Parliament. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend the laws necessary for a more accessible consumer protection until closure. Government referral T/3517. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. For the first time, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The government's priority is to represent, protect and enforce the rights of Hungarian people, families and consumers. In the current government cycle, the Minister of Justice is a member of the government responsible for consumer protection, which has created the opportunity to develop new focal points in the area. For this reason, the government has established Hungary's consumer policy, which is based on four main pillars: digital consumer protection, child protection, access to consumer protection and support for the development of uniform case-law. The peace is not the lack of conflict, but the ability to deal with the conflict. Dan Millman's words are particularly important in today's times of danger, as there is nothing more important than a peaceful settlement of disputes in the world at present, since the pursuit of peace has a profound impact on today's foundations. There is an increase in the use of non-formal mechanisms everywhere in all areas of life, so alternative dispute resolution is appreciated today. These procedures will lead to simpler solutions to problems, encouraging voluntary compliance, bringing stakeholders closer to themselves, and reducing the burden of judicial proceedings. It is of particular importance for the government to ensure that alternative dispute resolution instruments are effective and well-known to society, thereby facilitating peaceful dispute resolution. We are living in a time of danger, and at such difficult times, there are many opportunities for the government. We have always voted in favour of the support and protection of people, families and businesses, rather than taking anything from them. It is no different now, in the area of consumer protection. Honourable Members, The bill before us is another milestone in the implementation of the guidelines and objectives set out in consumer policy. The government's work on consumer protection will never stop. After numerous discussions, the Honourable Parliament has received a package of proposals for amending the laws necessary for a more accessible consumer protection with regard to conciliation bodies for alternative dispute resolution. Perhaps there is a question of what reconciliation bodies are and how they can help consumers. We can probably give a number of examples, whether from our own lives or from our family and acquaintances, when we have some problems with the company in connection with the purchase of an item or ordering a service. Often, the feet of expensive sports shoes are detached after the first use, our valuable phone will be disabled after a year, and the fresh tile in our apartment will fall off. After the first annoyance, we all turn to the company, looking for a solution, but unfortunately, in many cases the company can't resolve our problems directly. What can we do? We have two ways to go: either go to court, take up time and cost, or find alternative ways to settle. Such an excellent alternative is the conciliation panel procedure, which has many advantages over court proceedings. The conciliation panel procedure is therefore an out-of-court and free of charge for the consumer to conclude and resolve the dispute between him and the undertaking, thus addressing the financial disadvantage that the consumer has suffered against the undertaking. Therefore, conciliation corps procedures have a huge role to play in enforcing consumer demands, and their functioning alleviates the burden on justice and courts. It is of particular importance for our country to increase the effectiveness of alternative dispute resolution forums based on EU law, which is clearly the objective of the legislative amendment currently under negotiation. The preparation of the bill has been preceded by extensive social consultation, and we have asked the views of representatives of both civil consumer organisations and business interests organisations. The meeting of the Consumer Protection Council in March was dedicated to this proposal, and we also discussed it with the Presidents of the Conciliation Board. The aim was constantly to enable consumers to enforce their rights even more easily, even faster, before the conciliation bodies, while also reducing the administrative burden on businesses and bodies, taking into account Article XXI. The digital challenges and expectations of the century. Dear Parliament, In order to strengthen the professionalism of conciliation bodies and to make their financing more effective, the bodies shall operate with regional competence following the amendment. The more accessible consumer protection of the bill is included in the title of the bill. At the same time, this is not only a sound slogan, but also an increase in the place of administration for consumers. [[16.20]] In addition to the county seats, it is necessary to ensure a personal hearing in cities with county rights from 2024. Adapting to the challenges of the digital age and taking into account the experience gained during the coronal virus epidemic situation, one of the most important elements of the amendment is that the conciliation body holds the hearing primarily without a personal presence, in an online form. This will also make it possible for consumers, businesses and conciliation bodies to have a more efficient, simpler procedure. Of course, we do not forget those who are not familiar with the use of modern technological achievements or who do not have the necessary technical means, so consumers will be able to ask for a personal hearing at any time. At the same time, with the interests of businesses in mind, we want to ensure that consumers can participate in the proceedings online, as they choose; that is to say, we will also significantly reduce the administrative burden on businesses, as our aim is to facilitate a peaceful settlement of disputes. A further significant innovation from the consumer point of view is that the conciliation body will take a binding decision even if the undertaking has not made a so-called submission statement, but the application is well founded and the consumer's demand for enforcement does not exceed HUF 200,000. In other words, the decision of the conciliation body becomes enforceable, as is the case with the Financial Reconciliation Board. This is a huge step forward for consumers, and we can safely say that it is also a historic step in the system of reconciliation bodies since 1999 because substantive and enforceable decisions will be taken in cases below HUF 200 thousand from 2024 onwards. The rules on the membership of the conciliation body will also be amended. The new concept of membership of the College is that members of the respective conciliation body may be proposed by associations representing consumer interests, unlike the current legislation. The proposed person must, of course, comply with the conditions laid down in the Consumer Protection Act. It also serves to improve the quality of the conciliation bodies by requiring the President and members of the conciliation body to take a reconciliation panel basic examination within one year of the mandate. The detailed rules will be included in a new ministerial decree; the amendments to the selection, nomination and tender will enter into force on 25 June 2023, so if the bill is adopted, the new members and presidents will be selected on the basis of the new rules already in the autumn of 2023. On the basis of the amendment, the cooperation obligation of businesses will be further strengthened: in addition to the compulsory response and personal or online appearance, they will then have to provide the conciliation body with information on the implementation of the panel's decision. In this way, we trust that companies will comply with even greater number of reconciliation board decisions. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian conciliation board system is a significant asset, a system that has been uniquely operating for almost 25 years in the European Union, but it is also necessary to increase efficiency and ensure better accessibility. For this reason, the bill amending the laws necessary for more accessible consumer protection in order to better represent the rights of Hungarian people, families and consumers, and to protect and enforce them more effectively, is in advance and should be supported. Thank you for your attention, and I ask this House to support the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-12-122	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Gyula Siberényi, Congressman, whom God bless on his name's day! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/3517 on the table of this House, amending the laws necessary for the sake of consumer protection available Legislative proposal No.3 contains amendments to the conciliation bodies which perform alternative dispute resolution tasks in Hungary, with the aim of increasing the efficiency and accessibility of conciliation bodies. The conciliation bodies, which have been in service for 24 years in our country, offer the opportunity to resolve disputes between consumers and businesses free of charge, through simple, understandable procedural rules for the parties. They avoid often costly court roads and do not require the consumer to initiate civil or non-court proceedings in order to resolve his dispute with the undertaking. The purpose of the conciliation bodies is to establish an agreement between the parties and, in the event of its failure, to decide on a case in order to ensure a rapid, cost-effective enforcement of consumer rights. However, in order for the conciliation bodies to fulfil their main task and reach an agreement between the parties involved in the consumer dispute, communication between the parties is necessary. Dear House, The 1997 CLV on consumer protection. On the basis of an amendment to the Act, conciliation bodies will be re-established on the basis of regional competence. Instead of the current twenty, there will be eight conciliation bodies, but this will not be a disadvantage for consumers, as the amendment will also include an extension of the place of administration. Reconciliation panel presidents and members shall be selected from among the candidates by the Minister for Consumer Protection on the basis of a tender. One third of the members may be proposed by associations representing consumer interests. The terms of office of the conciliation body shall be four years instead of the previous three years; the number of members may be 12-27. It becomes a priority to conduct hearings online, while consumers can also request a personal hearing. It is important to point out from among the main amendments contained in the proposal that the panel will take a binding decision in proceedings of a value not exceeding HUF 200 000 even if the undertaking has not made a statement of submission but the consumer's request is well founded. At present, in the absence of a submission, only a recommendation can be made. The budgetary support for the functioning of the bodies shall be paid in the year preceding the year in respect of a reduction in the procedural cost laid down in decisions containing obligations by the bodies. The difference can be used for measures to raise consumer awareness, for the training of board presidents and members, and for the IT development needed by conciliation bodies in the context of online hearings. In addition to the above, the draft contains a number of amendments to the procedure of the bodies, mainly proposed by the conciliation bodies on the basis of practical experience. The rules governing the election of members of the conciliation panel shall enter into force on 25 June 2023, the date of entry into force of the other amendments shall be 1 January 2024. Dear Parliament, It is important to note that the motto of the new consumer policy adopted by the government is active consumer protection, which is both to combat infringements and to promote voluntary enforcement as the most important task of consumer protection. At a time of accelerated technological development, digitalisation and market changes, it is necessary to guarantee the rights of consumers through effective and rapid assistance and a secure institutional system. With this in mind, the new consumer policy focuses on four main areas: child protection, digital consumer protection, access to consumer protection and support for the development of uniform case-law. In addition, the bill contains some technical amendments. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill before us helps with the objectives set out above, so I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal in the light of what has been said, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-12-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju is coming from the DK Group to give a keynote speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[16.30]]
u2023-04-12-125	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I think there are several reasons why I should start my reaction to the oral additions that have been made, because if I start only from the title and the reference to the title, which gives me the address of the available consumer protection, it has little to do with what is otherwise in this draft law, and much more should be done in order to achieve this. Therefore, it does not contain a significant part of the necessary changes, and even takes a direction that I consider myself, Mr Secretary of State, that if I actually assume that you would like to make a certain element of the NER system more effective, then I understand the proposal, but since we believe that this system should be abolished and not made more effective, I think it should start with the fact that this draft law in this form is certainly not possible to support it. I will give some examples and, in part, shortcomings that lead to this draft law being rejected. Instead of the former Consumer Protection Authority, which ceased in 2016, its tasks will be carried out by government agencies. To give you just one good example, you would be happy to or would be happy to refer to the fact that, instead of twenty, there are only eight places that need to be provided for this. With all due respect, this means that the availability of customers from a small settlement will not happen in the absence of technology. And I can give you a good example of this right now, as I would like to quote it, because when you made the increase in overhead and people were confused about the increased accounts, the customer services that had been eliminated in a similar logic in recent years were in vain, but they could not find it, but the consequence was that they had to travel a lot to get answers from someone at all. I therefore think that an impact assessment is extremely lacking, which would result from the legislation that you have adopted, that if an investigation had been carried out, the consequences of the changes and, by the way, how they have worked so far, then I think they would clearly see that the consumer protection available is quite different. Therefore, as I stressed, there is no way to support this; in particular, since the authorities have been abolished, we have had to face the fact that there has been significant professional migration. As a result, unfortunately, efficiency has decreased significantly, and I think that has caused very serious harm to consumers themselves. This sector has never otherwise been more divided and crushed than it is now, which you have deliberately made so, despite the fact that, by the way, you have created an unworthy situation for consumers in a European Member State. Organisations in the field of consumer protection have been virtually impossible and essentially eliminated by the expertise that otherwise exists in businesses, manufacturers of products, and that is not available to consumers who act against them or wish to act on them. Now you want to make the system more effective when reconciliation bodies that protect the interests of businesses will take account of consumers. I think it just proves what you said earlier, how unjustified it is that you do what you do. In this system, this solution is not acceptable. So the question is, how do people get that kind of expertise? I continue to believe that civil society organisations that, by the way, help consumers with professionals and competent people should be strengthened. Of course, these organisations will carry out this task instead of the state, so they should be given the mandate and the conditions necessary for this operation. Consumer vulnerability has therefore increased significantly in this respect as a result of your changes over the past period, and this has also contributed to the rise in inflation, however strange it may be, as consumers are more sensitive to how they can deal with bad products or producers of such products due to the drastic rise in prices. The changes to the overhead, as I have mentioned, have remained virtually untreated over the past period, and in this respect, only self-organizations have been able to help. I am convinced that it is very important to build a consumer protection authority, whether by social organisations or by consumer protection authorities, within an independent framework, which can help to take consumer protection seriously, or to be seen as such when we talk about this legislation. For this reason, it is not acceptable that the conciliation bodies are essentially in favour of business representative bodies. This controversial situation is also compounded by the apparent political bias of the chambers. Consumers may also feel subjective that the body is not impartial in this situation. We do not agree with the proliferation of ministerial powers. Greater emphasis should be placed on civil and consumer representation. The Association of Stakeholders is proposed to propose only one third of the members of the panel, and it is appropriate to increase to 50 percent, thus strengthening consumer confidence. It is unfortunate to increase the three-year term of mandates to four years, as this makes it difficult to adapt flexibly to rapidly changing economic conditions. The information on conciliation bodies is very weak, and you are not paying attention to this. According to several surveys, most consumers do not know this possibility, and they do not have any information about the possibility of resolving cross-border disputes in principle. In addition to criticism of conciliation bodies, there is a need for a fundamental change in the area of consumer protection, as I have said, to establish the institution of the General Consumer Ombudsman and to organise an independent ombudsman's office in certain particularly sensitive areas, such as the establishment of an energy consumer protection service, particularly in such a critical situation as the one you have produced in the country. In the face of such a livelihood crisis, in the face of such an inflation and economic situation, there is a need for genuine consumer protection in Hungary, but unfortunately this draft law is not working for it, and therefore we will not support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-12-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Well, why should we be surprised that the Democratic Coalition does not support a bill to strengthen consumer protection? Well, they've always been enemies of consumer protection... [[Gergely Arató: We have eliminated consumer protection? You're kidding. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Remember when Laszlo Varju...
u2023-04-12-128	Excuse me, Congressman. Mr harvesto, if you would like to tell me the next time what you came in for, do not risk it, because according to the rules of the house, you, as a former notary, are perfectly aware of the possibilities I have to stop making such comments. We understand each other, don't we? Thank you very much for your attention. Go on, Congressman. [[16.40]]
u2023-04-12-129	Thank you very much. Not only was he a clerk, but he was also a former secretary of state. Both Gergely Arató and László Varju were state secretary to the government that put 1,800 control professionals out of consumer protection on the street in one year. 2007 was the year when 1,800 inspection professionals were put on the street with no special reason and no noble simplicity. But we may remember that the same year, 2007 when we were celebrating Easter just before Easter was a food forgery scandal in Hungary, which your consumer protection tried to cover up [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] And then you didn't fire the people responsible for this scandal. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that in this respect, with such a past, László Varju may have made the decision that these 1800 people should be dismissed, since he was a high-ranking State Secretary on economic and development issues. So with such a history, with such a past, we do not accept lectures on consumer protection from the Gyurcsány Party. Let's be clear about what they've done before. But accessible consumer protection, guaranteeing high quality, is a very important issue, and I think it is in the common interest of all of us. We see DK trying to pull itself out of this, even though the history of consumer protection can be traced back to the development of human civilization. Even in the Old Testament section of the Bible, the book of Leviticus, there are lines of consumer protection. The Bible says: "Do not be unjust in judging, using length, measure, and measure. Make sure your scales are authentic, your weight is authentic, your grade is authentic, your vagina is authentic. We can read this in the Bible, the Old Testament. In Hungary, Szent László and King Zsigmond already provided for certain quality, legal and consumer protection rules in relation to guilds and fairs. Maria Theresa's decree of 1764 contains high standards of quality and consumer protection appropriate to the conditions of the age, and then, with the development of capitalism and the modern civil state, the 1872 Industrial Law was a major step forward in terms of the quantity and quality of products. The 1884 Industrial Law introduced legislation on advertising in Hungary for the first time in order to remove false advertising. We have also performed on several occasions in KDNP ourselves, and we have also tabled legislative proposals in order to prevent our fellow countrymen from being fooled by cheating product shows and other, even telejournalists. We have introduced regulations here that have tried, and the numbers show that they have successfully protected people who have been tried by various fraudsters with these product shows. Today's modern Hungarian consumer protection was established by the 1997 CLV on consumer protection. Law. It is peculiar that there has been a conciliation board system in the European Union for almost 25 years, which is a major achievement and value. Here I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice and Deputy State Secretary Nóra Kupeczki for her work on consumer protection, as we have seen a number of progress over the last year. The last time I read the report on the pre-Easter control of public price-stops to protect people from sanctioning inflation, and on several occasions warnings or penalties were imposed in order to protect consumers, buyers, and no one to go home with an empty basket. We also thank the authorities for their work, and we ask them to continue to do so conscientiously. Reconciliation bodies offer the possibility of free, quick settlement of disputes between consumers and businesses and consumer disputes, through simple, understandable procedural rules for the parties. The functioning of conciliation bodies avoids often costly court roads and does not require the consumer to initiate civil or non-court proceedings in order to resolve a dispute with an undertaking. The conciliation board system is a well-established institution, which relieves courts of burden, a practical, understandable and cost-effective solution to settle disputes. The Government and Parliament have repeatedly strengthened and improved the conciliation board system through legislative amendments, for example in 2015 and then in 2019. In the bill before us now, according to the experience of the past period, conciliation bodies will be reorganized on the basis of regional competence, instead of the current twenty, there will be eight conciliation bodies. This is not a disadvantage for consumers, no matter what you have said, because the amendment also extends the place of administration. The mandate of the conciliation body is for four years instead of the previous three years and the number of members may be 12-27. The President and the members of the Conciliation Body shall, within a period of one year from the date of the mandate, take the initial examination of the arbitration panel, if this does not take place, the termination of the legal relationship. In my opinion, the most important step forward in the current bill is that it becomes a priority to conduct hearings online, electronicisation, the wider scope of online administration, a matter of priority, for which Parliament has already adopted a number of legislative amendments, and I feel that we will certainly continue to deal with the subject many times in the future. The preparation of the bill before us was preceded by extensive consultation, social consultation and consultation with the members of the Consumer Protection Council and the Presidents of the Conciliation Board. Accordingly, the KDNP fraction can support the modernisation of reconciliation bodies and the creation of human-centred consumer protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-04-12-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The Orbán government uses the authorities, including consumer protection, as a political discipline, or at least externally, because of the particular coincidence of coincidences, because sometimes companies that are not sympathetic to the government are suddenly given a little inspection, a little control, just to make them feel concerned. Such a coincidence could be, for example, the fact that an airline was offered a fine of hundreds of millions after its president criticized the existence of a special tax on the sector in an unbidden but justified way. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Protects Ryanair! The president's ringing the bell.]] I note quietly that this hundreds of millions of consumer protection fines will be paid by us consumers, so we have not been protected. On the other hand, the NER-friendly businesses and the very favorite foreign companies of the Orbán government somehow always get away with official procedures or receive a low amount of fines that will be paid laughingly. A recent example is the repeated violation of the rules of the Asian company, which operates in Hungary as part of the Fidesz battery plant fetish. Now, there are regular fines for the same or similar excuses, only small amounts that are microscopic compared to tens of billions of state aid. But there are a number of other examples where consumer protection or other authorities do not shatter in the allocation of penalties when it comes to businesses close to the party or the government. I am curious, for example, that you will indeed pay a consumer or whatever fine for the mayor of Fideszes-KDNP, who promises a new and exciting experience to the visitors, but cannot fulfill the promise in the name of the object, because as the walkers look at the sight of the sight, they actually find themselves on a tree park in the 4 ha desert and no foliage. Of course he doesn't get a fine, it's not a case, let's move on, there's nothing to do here, there's nothing to see, there's literally nothing to see. However, the public authorities, such as consumer protection, must be completely independent of politics, the fundamental aim of which is to protect Hungarian citizens. [[Dr. Gyula Tamás Szeberényi consults with his fellow Members. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-04-12-132	Congressman Seberényi!
u2023-04-12-133	The bill before us, which aims to make consumer protection more accessible, is basically a good proposal that is in it, in fact, okay. The conciliatory bodies themselves have done well in the last 24 years, and after this change, they will be a little more effective. So what's in this bill is eligible. What we need to talk about is what's left out. This bill is the government's new consumer policy, which has just been announced, which has been named "the consumer protection" by the Fidesz marketing-PR team, is quite anemic as a first step. It regulates something that has actually worked well, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, deals with an area that helps to balance problems that have already happened, not arguing that dispute resolution is important, and it is important that the consumer's problem is resolved as soon as possible. Consumer protection must, in principle, prevent the emergence of a problem. [[16.50]] Consumer protection, such as the government, must develop a regulation that is strict and does not give excuses to less honest traders and service providers, but is transparent and enforceable at the same time. Inform us what more you need to train consumers, people, what rights and obligations they have. Finally, it must introduce a strict system of checks and fines which deter undertakings from committing an infringement and enforce compliance with the rules. Ladies and gentlemen, It is the latter, precisely the official control and the fine, where I see a major problem, and in particular I would like to highlight a very important area: the spread of Internet commerce brings with it products and services that promote fake wonder drugs, medically unproven medicines and treatments. These are actually ineffective, scam-based products and services. On the one hand, the businesses behind them are targeting the little desperate people, those who want to lose weight, those who want to get beautiful, and on the other hand, and this is their worst move targeting the very desperate people, the people who suffer from the disease, because anyone who wants to heal will try anything, in case it gets better. These businesses often take advantage of serious, incurable patients, give them hope and take their money. I'd like to give you an example of the government's consumer side, random selection of a case. A company, let's call X.Y. Z. Invest Kft. advertises the miracle machine on a website that cures 60 diseases. Of course, there's no scientific basis, it's all a scam. Consumer protection investigates, finds that the claim that it cures 60 diseases is false and then decides: it prohibits the company from doing any illegal activity, and I say it once again to 100 thousand forints: it fines it to 100 thousand forints. The company's income was 8 million 300 thousand forints, and drumroll, on the same website, the same machine is advertised to cure 60 diseases, only now it is not X.Y. Z. Invest Kft., but X. Y. Medical Kft. under the heading "Absolutely'. That's all, everything goes on, and we find a number of examples that the webshop that sells wonder drugs after a ridiculously low amount of fines and a decision to terminate the infringement, a little otherwise known as company owner, has the same head office as the same product that sells and tricks people. If this can be done, it's either regulation or control authority, or both. Ladies and gentlemen, As we all know, you can't play pool without dick and balls. Consumer protection also needs hard tools to protect people's interests; strict rules to protect consumers must be in place; dissuasive fines must be imposed and a ready-to-do authority is needed. The government's new consumer policy must go in this direction so that the Hungarian people are protected properly and strongly. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-04-12-134	Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-135	Mr President, Dear House, We're starting from a very strange situation with regard to consumer protection. Didn't Fidesz do a huge deep flight because between 2010-14, there was a Committee on Consumer Protection here in Parliament. It worked as a separate committee, and we were able to examine very serious topics as a member at the time, such as foreign exchange lending, or even later Quaestor scandal. And I would also like to say to Mr Secretary of State that I am still confused before you have lifted the Committee on Consumer Protection. So I'm going to get you to think about the Commission structure next time, and I know that it's not customary in the middle of a cycle, but the separate Committee on Consumer Protection, which is exactly how this proposal would respond to a real need, would be a huge need. Now, there are attempts at this at sub-committee level, but the weight of a sub-area incorporated into the Economic Committee is quite different from that of a separate committee, whose management could otherwise function as a negotiating and political actuator. So we started off pretty deep. I'm glad that, after all these years in the wilderness, while we've been looking for who owns consumer protection, there is finally a ministry that has embraced this and I'm saying this without cynicism, it's a good thing I think, and we have important issues to deal with. However, I also see in the case of the online price monitoring system, where I welcome the fact that, five years after our proposal has been made, something is now happening, and I recall that the GVH is working on this, but perhaps in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Development. So we see again that although we have mentioned the online price monitoring system here in this debate, it is as if it is being dealt with by another ministry or is being dealt with by it. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State to put this in order that you really are the sole owners of this area. This is important not only for the opposition representative but also for the receipt of complaints. We see that, although the online dispute resolution platform is not a new invention in the area of consumer change, and it is a phenomenon that has existed for decades if Hungary is to take up space, I welcome that, so I am in favour of this part of the proposal. If the number of personally available points is reduced, it is obviously more difficult for me to support it. What I see is that you have carried out such a pilot project with regard to the medical on-call system. There, I recall, they started with a county, they did a trial process; it's like, obviously, the meeting point defines the position, often political opinions differ. But here, too, it would have been better if instead of merging, they tried to say this in a small area, in a small area, and based on their experience. So the best thing I could do to support is not to reduce the number of personally available points, but also to extend online and make online dispute resolution forums available. Maybe this would be the healthiest mix. And here we have to start something at the level of society, because I sense that a lot of people don't turn to this kind of financial reconciliation of dispute resolution because they already feel that they don't have the resources to pay lawyers, experts, other things and fight, say, a corporate world or even a multinational network. The feeling and consciousness of this has already deterred a lot of people from turning to the conciliator, even though he could turn, and otherwise he would have a good chance of achieving results. Here, too, the examination of the number of financial reconciliations is misleading, as in many cases the parties are the same before or at the beginning of the conciliation process, and that is why the issues come out of the statistics, or even as a result of the conciliation negotiations. I think it's a good way. I have reservations about how it could work online. There's a dilemma here, Mr. Secretary. So we are pushing digitalisation, but there is a consumer social class whose digital competences are now even less developed, and because of age and other peculiarities, it is statistically expected that not everyone will develop in this area in the coming decades; some of them also lack the intention to direct it, but still need to receive reconciliation or consumer protection assistance. So, obviously, we have to find a solution to that. Keeping 8 out of 20 physical points may not point to a solution in this regard, but where there is such competence and ability, I absolutely welcome online dispute resolution and consider it a viable way in the future, if not exclusively. My fellow government members helped me, because they brought in a number of other topics during the expo policy which I might not have brought into the general debate myself, but in my chair, Mr Secretary of State spoke, in a sympathetic manner, about a family-friendly approach to consumer protection. That's what I heard from the GVH when it introduced various family protection considerations in its proposal, and here it did this in connection with the online price monitoring system. I, on the other hand, do not understand why other consumer protection issues do not come before us. We have a previous proposal for free banking, up to the average wage and basic operations. We have looked at the bank statistics that sum up bank costs, and we see that, let's say, in Britain, there is literally a zero bank account, but in Hungary, the bank costs are extremely high. Some have 0.35%, some have around half a percent; in Hungary the typical wage load of this is over 1 percent, once again, in Britain, where it is zero. [[17.00]] If we want to protect families, let us consider that in the case of a family with two children, I wish we could keep it there, if only the family with four or five people were the average and the idealized family, but unfortunately our demographic situation doesn't suggest that, so let's consider a family with two children, if the children are close to the university age, then they can count on four bank accounts. This means that according to MNB statistics, their bank shortens them by HUF 4,000 per month and family only in order to use, withdraw, transfer and move their own money that has already been paid off. So the point of my proposal is that, up to the average wage and at least until the basic operations, you transfer the money, you give a collective collection order, you pay the rent, you make a straight bank account. If we also want to protect families and take consumer protection considerations, then the construction of the free bank account will satisfy both of them and will help the affected families on a monthly basis by thousands of forints. It does not take this out of the budget, it should not be added to other family policy measures, it is deducted from the extra profit of the banks concerned. In peace, why did the banks form, why did the banks come into existence? In order to put our money there and make their profits on the roll of it, not to draw extra faces and extras from the money they already have and are already rolling, in addition to the often passing on the banking sector special tax, the financial transaction levy. Mr Secretary, if you really want consumer protection focused on families, think about this proposal. I also think the same thing about the online price monitoring system. Now that targeted GVH studies have started, interestingly, in dairy products and other markets, it has been found that these multi-enterprises can promise each other in terms of actions if they want to, and suddenly there is a product with a 30-40 percent decrease in prices. What happened? With the faulty system of price caps, 6-7 goods were frozen, and multi-companies started pushing up the price of 6-7 thousand goods to compensate for their perceived or actual losses. They just pushed it a little too far. There was no control mechanism, no mechanism to protect consumers. Now that there is a targeted GVH study, suddenly it turns out that this pricing was not justified. So if you really want consumer protection focused on families, please pay attention to this, too. We should really put order in this, who is responsible for this, the GVH, the experts of your Ministry of Consumer Protection, and otherwise excellent experts of your department, I respect their work very much, because this will be a priority for the coming weeks. I am in favour of targeted investigations, and I am in favour of the introduction of a deterrent level of fines in Draco. We have very few previous right-wing amendments, which have passed through your system, but I remember one of them, in our first cycle, raised the ceiling of taxes that can be applied precisely to multis. I'm still trying to get you to use this tool bravely, but you're also taking action against passing it on. Because it was indeed right to say that there is no point in imposing a consumer protection fine of hundreds of millions if the company concerned is then able to integrate it without obstacles into the prices and beat it down on the same consumers, who, by the way, want to protect it from similar overruns. So you have a lot of work to do here. And even though I don't want to get involved in everything and everything, it is possible to make a viable system on its own after the end of the consumer protection authority, only my respectful request is not to fetishize the online dispute resolution forum, because a lot of people think that this is the case in the business world or in society, that personal encounters and negotiations reveal a lot more information, that these things carry additional data than online. I'm afraid a lot of people, already due to the online format of dispute resolution, won't even enter this game. So there must be a possibility of personal dispute resolution in every county, every county, within reach. If you complement this with online solutions, I will just welcome it, so I am absolutely happy for you, but please do not consider it exclusive about the spread of it online in the future, because I am quite sure that for very long decades many of our countrymen will still prefer the possibility of personal dispute resolution, and you will prefer to use it. Let's face it, we have a task, the whole parliament, to get our countrymen to do what I don't want to call educating, because that would be a very nasty term to use these instruments of dispute resolution, because a lot of people feel that they're already in a weaker position than the big company, they're less capital-powered, so there's a broken balance in all of this. It's no coincidence that the Ptk. Its successive amendments also sought to restore this balance and to protect consumers in a one-way way against the prevailing corporate or corporate dominant position and overweight. So I'm going to ask you to enforce and protect consumers, customers, customers and fellow citizens under all circumstances in such proposals! Thank you for your attention.
u2023-04-12-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I am speaking to Mr Zoltán Kovács of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-137	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Indeed, we are talking about an important issue this afternoon, the conciliation bodies, consumer protection. I would like to draw attention to a few things, because this is an important procedure. We're talking about a free procedure, it's a trial-preventing procedure, and it's attractive for customers, if any, to end the administration in one or three months, i.e. in a short time, against court proceedings. We know from the report of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry that 2674 of the 5580 closed cases were settled in 2022. It's an important number. In the framework of the new regulation, perhaps the most significant innovation is the promotion of the online system and regionalisation. We know that the world is moving towards the online system, but let it be allowed to bring in an Italian and a German example to see how they feel about it there. In Italy, the most important text for reconciliation with online contact is the following: if personal contact is not possible, there should be an online system primarily, but they stress that it is easier to reach an agreement during the physical meeting of the parties. In Germany, the entire electronic procedure, including the introduction and issue of an online hearing, is treated with similar caution. During the conciliation procedure, according to the judicial portfolio there, consumers who require a conciliation procedure expect the possibility of personal contact, which is written in Verbraucherschlichtungbericht. Several points of administration are set up, this is correct, but on the other hand we reduce the number of conciliation bodies, and their counties become regional. I would suggest that we consider this proposal. If there are several points of administration, and perhaps Dániel Z. Kárpát talked about this because access to and skills in the electronic world are not sufficient for customers in many respects, it is also worth considering whether there should be assistance staff for customers. It should also be considered that the procedure may be initiated not only by the individual applicant but, where appropriate, by the undertaking in the conciliation process. Ladies and Gentlemen, Colleagues! I'd like to draw attention to a few things. We draw the line at 200,000 forints. We usually talk about consumer goods and consumer goods prices from a hairdryer to a washing machine or television, in many cases well above 200,000 forints. I would recommend a half a million forints threshold for consideration in this matter. The law requires a basic exam. Several lawyers, counsellors, university professors, if any, are working and doing the work in the conciliation bodies. [[17.10]] I would even say, as a lawyer who is not currently practicing, that I would be offended by this procedure, that I would be required to have a basic exam with a consumer protection conciliation body, while, by the way, let's say, a lawyer can act at the Mansion, not to mention university teachers close to the world of law enforcement and legislation. Therefore, I think that we should think more differentiatedly about who needs and who does not have to take such a basic exam. It can also be considered, where appropriate, if we look at common case-law in this regard, in which other ways this could be developed, since it is important that these conciliation bodies decide in a uniform manner on a subject, where appropriate. Speaking of online, let us consider that you are obliged to appear to customers in a simple defamation case, compared to this in the counties where there will be no centre, let us say, in the regional procedure there are equipment, equipment, or a personal interview that may not be possible in an online case, because you cannot bring it to the camera where this hearing is taking place. And anyone who has been involved in such proceedings or anything where personal reconciliation takes place, there are many things that have played a role since metacommunication. So I'm not just saying the Italian and German examples; I'm not sure it's possible to be omnipotent in this case for an online hearing. Ladies and gentlemen, In my view, the proposal should be supported, but there must be some issues to consider in this matter, not only because I said it, but also because many of us here have talked about a number of things, because we all want this to go well, to function well, because it removes the burden on the courts. Let us consider that if these conciliation corps procedures are not successful, most of them will end up in court. So what we're saving on one side, because we're gonna pay eight instead of 20 presidents with a fee, and on the other side, we're gonna pay multiple times that in court. Obviously, even in the regionalization of county trade and industrial chambers, if the online option is provided in several cases, there are places where you have to travel up to 50 to 80 km or 30 km instead of even hundreds of kilometres. If we are talking about a consumer-friendly public administration, I believe that this should also be taken into account in the procedures. Thank you very much for your attention, and I would like to draw your attention to this. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-12-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now we have a two-minute speech. I give the floor from the DK Group to Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-139	Thank you very much. Dear House, To be honest, I would just like to respond to Mr Zoltán Kovács's comment, because he has given us the hope that there may be a way to move, with the intention of improving it, because no one here has contested the original intention, it is clear that consumer protection is an important issue, and we want the reconciliation bodies within consumer protection to work well. So I wanted to say that I think it is a good sign, if there is a way to find better solutions for a pro-government initiative here, then obviously we can support this if a good compromise is reached. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-04-12-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Károly Kontra whether he is a two-minute or a proper speech, because he has checked in for both. [[Károly Kontra: I have corrected, Mr President, thank you very much.]] Okay, I'll give it to you for two minutes first, because we're in two minutes, and if you want to continue, I'll give you the floor for the proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-12-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there was no debate in the debate about the fundamental purpose of this bill: the need for more accessible consumer protection and successful consumer protection. I believe that the implementation of this is in the public interest and that Parliament has every chance of implementing a law that promotes it, which serves this purpose. There was talk of the task and purpose of the reconciliation bodies. It is clear that the aim is to establish an agreement between the parties and, in the event of its failure, to decide on the matter, to ensure that consumer rights are enforced quickly and cost-effectively. However, in order for the conciliation bodies to fulfil this most fundamental task and to reach an agreement between the parties involved in the consumer dispute, communication is necessary. Several comments on communication have affected this way. I think that these are worth taking into account in the decision-making process. Accelerated technological development, digitalisation and response to market changes are important, but it is also important that those who do not keep pace or are not in a position to do so also have a chance to effectively represent their own interests. I believe that there is every chance that we will adopt a good law in this respect, and I too, in agreement with my colleague Zoltán Kovács, who was before me, or with the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction, should support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-12-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then you don't want a proper speech, Congressman. [[Károly Kontra: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Róbert Répássy, Deputy Minister of State, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-143	Thank you for the floor. I would like to reply briefly now, perhaps even in detail at a later stage in the debate. I want to thank you...
u2023-04-12-144	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary. You won't get a chance, that's the closing.
u2023-04-12-145	Yes, thank you very much. I thought that before the final vote, but, of course, I will use every opportunity to communicate with Members. So now I would like to say that I thank you for your supporting contributions and thank you for your improved proposals. Of course, we will consider any proposals that serve the objective of more accessible consumer protection that we have set out. I believe that, of course, the comments that have just been made have not challenged this objective, so we thank each and every proposal which agrees with the objectives of the bill. It will not be up to us that the Parliament adopts this law. Please give as many support as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-12-146	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! The amendments will be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have XLII in 2022 on the elimination and management of the consequences of armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary in neighbouring countries. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/3518. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary's immediate neighbour, Ukraine, has been at war for more than a year. Due to the closeness of the war, its humanitarian and economic effects will continue to affect our country in a clear way. These negative effects have become part of our daily lives for more than a year, which, from the present perspective, clearly demonstrates the justification for the government's declaring an emergency with its powers in the Fundamental Law on 25 May 2022, and then maintaining the special legal order on 1 November 2022 following the entry into force of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. [[17.20]] During the emergency, the government made use of the possibility of introducing extraordinary measures within the framework of the Fundamental Law and the relevant fundamental law. Over the past year, the government has taken a number of measures that have proved necessary to address the economic crisis affecting the world economy and, as a result, the Hungarian economy as well, and the runaway inflation. Among other things, the government extended the interest rate stop on residential loans, fought against the energy prices which were released, and continued to fight to ensure the energy supply of Hungarian people and businesses. The government, in close cooperation with the Hungarian Competition Authority, is also fighting in the field of consumer protection in order to protect Hungarian families from the negative effects of inflation. Dear House, As a result of the prolonged war, the management of the economic crisis threatening Europe requires that the government, in close cooperation with Parliament and in the coming months, can take the necessary measures in order to protect the livelihood and security of Hungarian people, as well as the assistance and support of people fleeing from war to our country. The Russian-Ukrainian war in our country's neighbourhood has brought the continent to a humanitarian challenge that has not been experienced since the Second World War, and has also changed Europe's economic prospects, and no positive change has occurred in recent times. To deal with the humanitarian disaster and to address and deal with the consequences of international economic change, our country must continue to ensure that effective, rapid national responses are developed. In order to ensure that all the necessary means are available to help, support and accommodate those fleeing from war, and to ensure that Hungary leaves behind the harmful consequences of the war as soon as possible, the Government asks the Parliament with the bill submitted to extend the duration of the emergency announced on 1 November 2022 by a further 180 days in full compliance with the relevant public-law framework. The draft law on the elimination and management of the consequences of armed conflict or humanitarian disaster in Hungary in the neighbouring country is technically designed to create a mandate under Article 51 (3) of the Fundamental Law. In accordance with the legal options, the Government requests the possibility of extending the emergency by 180 days from Parliament, which ensures that exceptional measures are maintained during this period. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, After the world's coronal virus pandemic, our country faces the consequences of a war and a sanctions policy surrounding the war, a war that no one can see the end of. The government's aim in this extraordinary situation, which has been going on for many years now, is to preserve the physical and financial security of Hungary and Hungarian families and to protect those fleeing Ukraine. In order for the government to be able to take all the necessary measures in time, it is necessary to adopt this bill as soon as possible. This bill will ensure effective and swift government decision-making in order to respond flexibly to the difficulties caused by the war. I stress that the government is not asking Parliament for unlimited authorisation, the time limit contained in the bill in question, and the obligation to provide information to Parliament, which has been valid since 1 November 2022, which has already given effect to public-law political responsibility, as laid down by the Fundamental Law, clearly ensures that Parliament's control is enforced. I also stress that the government's obligation under the Fundamental Law is also to initiate, if the war and the global economic situation allow, the abolition of the emergency before the expiry of the bill under discussion. On this basis, I ask you to support this bill and, with regard to Article 51 (4) of the Fundamental Law, by qualified majority, to ensure that the duration of the emergency is extended by the Government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] With regard to paragraph 1 of this Article, a qualified majority shall ensure that the duration of the emergency is extended by the Government. Thank you for your attention. (Applause in the pro-government benches.)
u2023-04-12-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Demeter. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I would also like to look back in time to make it clearer and clearer to amend the bill that has been tabled. In 2020, as in almost every country in the world, a coronal virus epidemic broke into our country, and this epidemic affected almost all of us, changed our everyday lives, locked ourselves in our homes to have as few people as possible, and then we wore masks, and we listened to each other and our countrymen. Yet, for many families, this was a tragic time, since this coronal virus epidemic took many victims. In order to be able to respond to the problems caused by the virus as efficiently and as quickly as possible, the Hungarian government declared a national emergency following the outbreak of the disease, with which a special legal order was put in place in Hungary. I think that this was a very important step, and it was even a necessary step, because the government was able to make decisions with the minimum possible time loss, with which many lives were saved. When the light came up at the end of the tunnel and we thought that this coronal virus epidemic was over, there was another sad event that affected us Hungarians in particular, because, as has been said, the Russian-Ukrainian war is currently taking place next door. On 24 February 2022, perhaps, we were struck by lightning, even if we knew that there were serious tensions between the two countries, but somehow we felt that there was no possibility of an armed conflict in Europe in 2022. The Russian-Ukrainian war in our country's neighbourhood has resulted in a humanitarian situation that has not been experienced since World War II and, as we have heard, has also changed the economic situation in Europe. We have taken in many refugees, helped them, supported them, and therefore thanked the Hungarian people. To deal with the humanitarian disaster and to avoid the consequences of international economic change, our country must continue to have the opportunity to develop effective, rapid national responses. Therefore, in order to ensure that all the necessary means are available to help, support, accommodate people fleeing and to prevent harmful economic impacts that arise, to mitigate the consequences, and to ensure that the country leaves behind the harmful consequences of the war as soon as possible, the government has issued a special legal order throughout Hungary and proposes to extend the emergency. [[17 .30]] The government declared the emergency in its competence as defined in Article 51 (1) of the Fundamental Law, as the Fundamental Law allows, and I quote: in the event of armed conflict, war situation or humanitarian disaster in the neighbouring country, and in order to remove its consequences, the Government must declare an emergency. In view of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Ukraine, and in order to combat and address their consequences in Hungary, this act of government should be adopted in accordance with Article 424/2022 on the announcement of an emergency and certain emergency rules. [[X. 28.]] I quote: In the event of an armed conflict, war or humanitarian disaster in the neighbouring country, and in order to avoid its consequences, the Government must declare an emergency. In view of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Ukraine, and in order to combat and address their consequences in Hungary, this act of government should be adopted in accordance with Article 424/2022 on the announcement of an emergency and certain emergency rules. (Cat. 28. It's contained in a government decree. As a result of the provisions of the Fundamental Law, Parliament's decision on the temporal effect of an emergency is necessary for the purpose of authorising under Article 51 (3) of the Fundamental Law. The emergency can be declared for 30 days under the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. The government may extend the emergency on the basis of the mandate of the Parliament if the circumstances giving rise to the announcement of an emergency persist. The mandate of the Parliament to extend the emergency situation, which will be amended by the bill and the XLII of 2022 on the prevention and management of the consequences of armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary in neighbouring countries. It shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union, and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the Official Journal of the European Union. The purpose of the bill is to enable the Government to extend the emergency by another 180 days, as I said, on the basis of Article 51 (3) of the Fundamental Law. On the basis of this mandate, the Government may issue a technical extension of the duration of the emergency to 424/2022. [[X. 28.]] In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, the Government is authorised to extend the emergency situation for a further 180 days. On the basis of this mandate, the Government may issue a technical extension of the duration of the emergency to 424/2022. (Cat. 28. a government decree extending the validity of a government regulation. The proposal takes into account the XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of security and security activities. propose the granting of an authorisation for a period of 180 days and may extend the emergency situation until 26 November 2023 on the basis of that mandate. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this proposal on the basis of what they have said. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Unconditional!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-151	Dear House, An extension is one of the government's favorite words. First they wanted to extend the small railway to Bicska, and since then they have been marked for the extension of the special legal order. Several of us have read it, heard it here in Parliament, we have 2,500 days of such a special legal order, and they are now proposing to extend this special legal order in view of its great success. Let's be honest. There's always a reason, of course. There were times when there was a need for a special legal order during the initial period of the coronal virus epidemic, or at least logic. And then you guys fell in love with it. They have come to love the fact that even in such highly braked debates in Parliament they do not want to defend a series of measures, nor are they willing to devote the few hours to telling the opposition what they would like to do and to ask. It came after the Covid epidemic, but it would have been embarrassing to refer to it, though, it was in Hungary that the extraordinary legal order for the Covid epidemic was maintained for the longest time, while, in fact, they were supposed to have been extremely successful in their defense. Of course, we know that is not true, but when it could not be referred to, they began to refer to the war in the neighbouring country, which is undoubtedly a very serious thing, but it is no coincidence that even in those countries which you believe are at least more active and are helping Ukraine more actively, and that is probably the case, we see this. The thing is, you're simply comfortable with this solution. I would also like to make suggestions immediately that sooner or later this war will end, if this war is over, then I suggest an emergency due to the high water level of the Danube and the low water level of the Danube; an emergency due to winter, autumn, summer and spring, even if there is at least a change. The fact is that this emergency, this legislation, has nothing in the world to do with the threat and dangers that you are already facing, which are most likely caused by your great friend, President Putin, all of Europe, including Hungary, or the economic difficulties that you are causing in the first place, and only the war in the second place. There is only one thing that has to do with this type of regulation: you want to do as many things as possible in secret, with government decisions, even avoiding the very limited public in Parliament. You are extremely busy in two areas with regard to emergency regulations: one is the extension of data, of time limits for access to data of general interest, in Hungarian: direct restriction of the public; the other is very creative treatment, to say the least, with regard to budgetary money. It is a scandal, however, that after a budget that everyone knew was being pushed over last summer, that it was fictitious, that it had nothing to do with reality, and then this budget was completely rewritten by decree in December, and after three months of delay, they obtained Parliament's approval for something which is otherwise as fictitious as its predecessors, so we can be sure that this budget will be rewritten several times. And, of course, you can say that voters can say that, well, democracy is important, it is important that the definition of the budget is, after all, a fundamental constitutional right, that the budget is adopted by Parliament, one of the most important things! It is no coincidence that the French revolution also began with parliamentary debates around the budget and discussions about taxes, but it is the case that these are nice, abstract principles. Will the bread be cheaper if there is democracy; should it pay less than the gas station; would wages or pensions be worth more? People can ask and ask. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is yes. Because how this works and how they use this mandate is well illustrated by the inflation figures published today. Because the situation, my fellow Members, is that, while inflation in the European Union is already below 10%, inflation figures in Hungary are back up to 25 per cent, inflation is essentially frozen, the situation remains that our money is worth a quarter less than a year ago, and in the case of food, which is an extremely big problem for poor families, inflation is still 42 per cent. [[17.40]] That's what they did. The excellent fight you're fighting against inflation is worth it. You are so pro-peace that the only fight that would make sense has also failed to fight inflation. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that, of course, they refer to sanctions, but the question is, if sanctions are wrong for everything, then on the one hand, how can sanctions only cause such brutal inflation in Hungary, and, on the other hand, if sanctions are really wrong, why did your government support these sanctions? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the reason why we do not support this new mandate law, apart from democratic concerns, is because you are abusing this mandate. They use it for the creative use of budget money. A wonderful example is the legislation that last appeared, perhaps on Tuesday, in which another 5 billion are transferred from family and child protection tasks to Minister Rogán for the implementation of state celebrations and sporting events. On the other hand, we do not support it because you are unable to meet the challenges and do something economically. You can't use that authority. Give Parliament back the right to check public finances. And I could tell them to resign, but I know they won't do it, because they insist on power, no matter how unable they are to govern, but what I can tell you is that you should at least listen to those who have an idea of what to do about inflation, to stop it from being expensive. Let me offer you once again the proposals of the shadow government. If they were willing to discuss them here in Parliament, it might turn out that if you were not, Klára Dobrev's shadow government knows what should be done to address the country's economic situation. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Who elected him?]] Thank you very much.
u2023-04-12-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The former Secretary of State of the Gyurcsány government is trying to teach us from democracy. Listen carefully, listen carefully, the former Secretary of State of the Gyurcsány government, who has led a horse-riding attack against the Hungarian people, is trying to teach us a lesson in democracy. This is an interesting situation, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask Mr Harvester, you know what kind of emergency is in the United States now, in April 2023.
u2023-04-12-154	Congressman, don't ask, because that's not the genre.
u2023-04-12-155	It was a rhetorical question, Mr. President, a rhetorical question.
u2023-04-12-156	It's a rhetorical question.
u2023-04-12-157	I'll answer that, though, because of the close relationship, you must know, Congressman Arato. Well, there's a coronal virus threat in the United States, which will end on May 11th. Crown virus threat. [[Dr. László György Lukács: The government just announced that it will be terminated. That's morning news!]] So there's a coronal virus threat in America, the United States. [[Gergely Harvesto: Not anymore!]] But right now, there's a coronal virus threat.
u2023-04-12-158	Congressman! I ask everyone to acknowledge that we are not living in a period of dialogue, but in a period of speeches. Then you can answer it when the debate begins.
u2023-04-12-159	In America, there's a coronal virus threat. In Italy, a state of emergency has just been declared due to migratory pressure. We see in many situations that we are living in the age of danger, so there is often a reason for rapid decision-making. But believe me, ladies and gentlemen, we would be most pleased if this debate had not even begun today, and this bill would not be tabled, because that would mean that there is peace in Ukraine. What we would most welcome, ladies and gentlemen, is a ceasefire if there were peace talks and a peace was born that would restore peace throughout Europe if a peace agreement was reached that would restore peace throughout Europe. The best thing we'd like to do if the war was over and we didn't have to talk about it right now. Ladies and gentlemen, Don't pretend it's not like that. This is where you come in, and instead of making pro-peace statements, you make pro-war statements. They do not vote in favour of peace, they come in with their gun demands, they beat the table with their pro-war statements, while we are now discussing this law because Ukraine is in a terrible, tragic and terrible war, which is not closer to the end after a year, but now it is not the end of the horizon, my fellow Members. There's a terrible, escalating war going on in the neighboring country. I remember when Zita Gurmai MSZP representative said that this was a fake problem, created by Fidesz, when we talk about inflation due to war, energy price increases due to war, and it's just a political balloon. But these are real facts, fellow Members. There is a terrible war, and it must be stopped as soon as possible, and there must be a ceasefire as soon as possible. We would be most pleased on this side if we did not negotiate this bill, because that would mean that peace in Ukraine has been restored. That is the case, honourable Members. Only now, unfortunately, and this is not the biggest problem, but this war is escalating. We can't call it a local conflict where guns were carried from 35 countries, a war where guns were carried from 35 countries. And the fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that, yes, there is a situation and war has humanitarian implications, and, of course, Mr Arató did not mention this, of course, as inflation, energy price increases, because the war and the failed sanctions for it have caused an overall energy crisis and, as a result of the energy crisis, a sanctioned inflation in Europe and thus in Hungary. These effects should be protected against. But our first task in the war is humanitarian aid. I don't know, they read the police announcement. To date, more than a year has passed since the beginning of the war, and there are days when the number of people arriving that day is over 10,000. They must be cared for, accepted, adjusted, if they want to go further, given the necessary care. I don't know how you've been on the Hungarian-Ukrainian border recently or even in the last year. Some children arrive without the possession of mandatory child vaccines in the European Union. In such cases, the Hungarian health system must stand, conduct investigations and administer these vaccines, ladies and gentlemen. We have a lot of humanitarian work to do! The greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history is also taking place in these moments. I would like to thank the municipalities, authorities, ecclesiastical organisations and civil society organisations that are doing this work, health work, humanitarian work, charitable work, relief work, because there are thousands of refugees coming from Ukraine. There are already over a million people who have arrived in the last year. That is why, for example, exceptional legal order is needed. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) We believe that there is an inaccuracies in the bill, and we will therefore make an amendment on the part of the governing parties. We're talking about a combination here. The government refers to 390 days, but since we have previously agreed with the joint decision that Parliament can grant the Government the power to issue an emergency order for 180 days, we will therefore make a clarification amendment here in order to divide the sum and not include 390 days in this. It should be clear to everyone that we are talking about 180 days, so we will be making an amendment to this on the part of the governing parties. I'm asking you to support this. And I would also ask you, with regard to the whole of the law, to support this proposal, because it is important to be able to fight effectively against the effects of war and penalties that have failed, so that we can stand up to our humanitarian responsibilities and that this war will end as soon as possible, and that there will be a ceasefire, because only by ceasefire and peace talks can we save lives, and that lives are the most important. That is why I ask you to support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Hajnal, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-161	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Allow me to quote one of the members of the Hungarian Government, and I would like to begin by saying this:, Even though the left accuses us of the fact that the special legal order will last forever, it will end earlier than in most European countries. This was promised by Gergely Gulyás. He did not promise this in 2023, not in 2022, but not in 2021, but in 2020. Three years have passed, and the words of Gergely Gulyás have aged badly. Because here we are again, here we are to discuss, and then to vote on giving the government another six months, 180 days, as has been said, until they can govern with regulations, emptying and disinheriting Parliament. [[17.50]] Right now, they are insisting on regulation governance on the basis of war, but it seems that they have got a good taste of it: the crisis in our country has been over 2,500 days, and the regulation has been governing for over 1,000 days. Here I could give a long summary of how we have come to this point; I could list long statistics on how many regulations, how many hundreds of regulations have been created in which year. However, it is far more important that everyone is given an insight into what they themselves are dealing with in the context of the emergency and what they are using the instrument of regulation governance. I have just given you a few examples of this; you may consider this to be a top 10 list of the results of the regulation's governance. Let's do this. Example 1: 92/020. Government decree. This was almost immediately after the emergence of the Crown Virus: On 6 April 2020 Viktor Orbán signed the government decree with which he practically avenged the municipal elections; because in 2019 several municipalities were under opposition control, which was previously pro-government. And the government's response came in on April 6th: they withdrew the motor vehicle tax from the municipalities with a pen stroke. While 40 percent of the revenue previously belonged to the municipalities and 60 percent to the state, this 60 percent was not enough for the Hungarian state, it was not enough for you, it needed all 100. In addition, they managed to put this in a way that would cover the entire year, not just from April, when Viktor Orbán signed it. This time, the Prime Minister is entitled to an "A" in retrograde legislation. And how does this relate to the epidemic, by the way? Well, that's the thing, it doesn't. Example 2: 136-2020. and 294-2020. government regulations. Not only in general, they specifically targeted a local government that could have been harmed by the epidemic. The Göd, who became opposition-led following the 2019 municipal election, had significant business tax revenues from Samsung in its territory. The government first designated Samsung investment in Göd as a special economic zone with a decree and then a law; they took the money from the Gödians and gave it to the Fidesz-led Pest County Municipality. Example 3: 179-2020. and 521/2020. government regulations. We are still in the same year, in 2020, when you have taken care of it more precisely by the government, not by you, because there is regulation governance, so the government has also made sure that it is important for the public, but that the government is not allowed to have any data that is unpleasant to the public for a long time. On the pretext of an emergency, the deadline for public data request was increased to 45 days, then 90 days. And what does that have to do with the plague? Nothing. Example 4: 33/2022. Government decree. Not only did they make data request difficult, the same was the fogging around the failed epidemic treatment. First of all, the Ministry of Human Resources, when it existed, wanted to decide who to give access to hospital conditions. Then, however, a court ruling said that the Ministry could not ban journalists; the government drew out the jolly joker of the regulation and handed the decision into the hands of the operational tribe so that it could completely exclude the press. How did this help to deal with the epidemic? We don't know that. Example 5: 484-2020. Government decree. Not only did it become more difficult to inform and inform, but it also became more difficult to protest and protest. From November 2020 until May 2021, the right of assembly of Hungarian citizens was revoked on the basis of an epidemiological risk. In an unprecedented way, protests which comply with the epidemiological rules have also been restricted in Europe. Fortunately, in May 2021 the football European Championship came, and suddenly, see wonder: this risk has ceased. Example 6: 483-2020. and 30/2021. government regulations. At the end of 2020, at the beginning of 2021, several local and national referendum initiatives were planned: Lake Fertő, Fudan University and job search support. Once again, the virus has come to you with the aim of canceling any initiative that might have demonstrated disagreement or opposition by citizens on the grounds of an emergency. Example 7: 446/2021. and 36/2022. government regulations. They did not stop to make data requests difficult, to ban protests and to make referendums impossible, they also took away the opportunities of workers' rights and those who struggled for their respect. In 2021, air traffic controllers, in 2022, tried to ban teachers' strike on the basis of a Regulation referring to the Crown Virus. Example 8: 325/2022. Government decree. The year 2022 has come, the epidemic has passed, and a new emergency has been introduced instead, this time referring to the armed conflict in Ukraine. This came in handy in August, when the government stated in an emergency regulation that public spaces could be used free of charge for the Budapest fireworks that had been delayed due to the storm, and finally held on 27 August. How free public use and August fireworks are related to the Russian-Ukrainian war is at least questionable. Example 9: 4/2023. Government decree. One of the most important political developments of last year was the joint protest and joint stand of teachers, students, parents. The government's response, of course, was not the settlement of teachers' wages and the reform of the education system, but rather the decree that teachers' protests were particularly risky because of the war situation. The regulation facilitates the immediate dismissal of protesting teachers. What this has to do with the war in Ukraine... There's no treasonous silence. Example 10: 13/2023. Government decree. There are also winners of regulation governance, whose financial difficulties will be solved by the government, such as the winners of public works contracts. The increased cost of material could have been a serious problem for NER construction contractors, because the government made a decree in no time to ensure that winning companies could increase the cost of public investment without a new procedure. Don't let it hurt any of your friendly entrepreneurs. Needless to say, the regulation can also be applied retroactively. These were only ten examples of hundreds of emergency regulations, many more to choose from. The regulations were very much based on the emergency situation, but in many cases this was not even necessary. The casino concessions, the creation of Magyar Bankholding, the Gigabank linked to Lőrinc Mészáros, the Velodrom in Debrecen, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line based on Chinese credit, the development of Citadel, the creation of the Rácalmás industrial area involving millions of people from Dunaújváros, the BMW plant in Debrecen, the 4iG acquisition of Digins by the NER-Oligarcha Jászai Gellért, as well as the acquisition of influence over Antenna Hungária. After the recordings of the 60 Puszta estate of the Orbán family, they also tightened the use of the drone with a government decree; and lastly, by openly circumventing representative democracy, the budget of 2023 was again put into effect, and only three months later could Parliament vote on it. I could tell you for hours what abuses, hidings and circumventions have been created during more than three years of regulation governance. But the cases presented so far are enough to make it clear that you love the crisis. You are the political beneficiaries of the crisis. The longer the emergency lasts, the more money they accumulate and the stronger they can hold on to power. Thus, the government's decisions made by decree do not serve the interests of Hungary or the interests of Hungarian citizens, but the interests of power. Therefore, the present proposal also serves only one purpose to prolong the emergency: to cement power. This cannot be supported and cannot be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2023-04-12-162	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-163	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Yes, I would also like to give the way to this debate by talking about the pulpit, because we are discussing a very important bill, on the basis of which this institution here, this Hungarian Parliament, in fact, by giving up its exclusive right to legislate, is transferred to the hands of a body on paper, the government, so that he can otherwise make decisions and regulations different from any law adopted by Parliament. Accordingly, you obviously thought that the Prime Minister would be here in person, at least missing a member of the government, let us say, a larger number of pro-government representatives, and giving weight to this extremely important thing. [[18.00]] I'm looking at my colleague Nacha. It is not the opposition that asks for an emergency regulation mandate, but the Hungarian government, which only one member did not have the honour to come here personally and say to the Hungarian Parliament, doing it a little as if the Hungarian government would consider this to be a serious institution and not a biorobot voting machine, as far as the pro-government majority is concerned, that there is indeed so much trouble again, that there is still a need for Viktor Orbán to rewrite anything in this country by a decree at 10:00 p.m. They didn't. The title of this bill already has serious problems, because I think it's misleading. It is called:. The amendment of the law on the elimination and management of the consequences of the armed conflict in the neighbouring country and of the humanitarian disaster in Hungary. If we are honest, the title of this bill is: Hungary is a banana republic. That's his address and that's his content. The government proposes to the Parliament to extend the emergency by another 180 days, i.e. until the start of the 390th day following the announcement of the emergency. This means that the Government Decree on the announcement of an emergency entered into force on 1 November 2022 will remain in force until the end of November 2023. For now, we've seen you. It can be seen as a sign that the emergency in Hungary has been uninterrupted for more than two years now, and thus the government's legislation on regulations is also a sign. It was originally only 90 days of authorisation in Law 1 of 2021, i.e. the full power of the government should have ended in May 2021. However, this was not cancelled, and the termination date was even made 15 days after the first autumn meeting of the Parliament in 2021. Of course, this did not remain permanent either, as the end of the regulation was pushed forward on 1 January 2022, which was even further pushed forward on 1 June 2022. In view of the war situation in Ukraine, a new type of emergency was first created and the new one was announced quickly before the previous expiry date, with an expiry date of 1 November 2022. Of course, this is not the final date either, since they no longer wanted to be able to date with newer and newer deadlines, but rather they pushed the possibility of extending to 180 days systematically. The 180-day extension can be granted in an unlimited number, and even at the level of reference the government does not explain how long it intends to use the possibility of regulation governance allowing a derogation from the law. Ladies and gentlemen, So much for formality. I think it is important that we look at why this bill is necessary in substance, and in this you can give us guidance from Secretary of State Répássy's exposé. He highlighted three very important things: the current need for regulation governance in the shadow of the Ukrainian war, the Russian-Ukrainian war, because the government is fighting inflation and has to stop it; because the government is fighting and dealing with the economic crisis; and thirdly because the humanitarian disaster must be dealt with by such extraordinary means by the government. Mr. Secretary, the first two would be a shame to ask for another 180 days of authorization. They are seriously saying that after several months, almost six months, where you have managed to bring together Europe's largest inflation, and at present, according to today's or yesterday's data, this is still 25.2 percent, over 42 percent of food, pensioner inflation is above 26 percent to date, which is why you have had to rule over the past six months? ! You're not gonna make it, Mr. Secretary, well, you've never done it before. Maybe we should make a normal policy. Maybe we should do a normal federal policy and economic policy. Maybe we should open up some textbooks and put unorthodox rushes aside at least in such a difficult situation. And they are not good at dealing with the economic crisis either, they know exactly, not to mention the state of the country's financing capacity and its ability to finance currency within it. You know that better than we do, but I'm afraid you're painting a pretty sad picture. And the country is in a technical recession, so economic growth or the economic crisis has not been eliminated by regulation governance. As far as humanitarian aid is concerned, Mr Secretary of State, I have had the opportunity to inform myself personally as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, for example, in Poland. There 10 million people entered the country, and Poland provides 1.6 million people with lifestyles. They stay there, they live there, they get jobs, they get care; 1.6 million people. To the best of my knowledge, Mr Secretary of State, there are currently a few ten thousand Ukrainians in our country who have remained in this country as a way of life. This is certainly not a humanitarian emergency that a government would otherwise not be able to resolve within its normal powers of mandate. So that argument is not true, Mr. Secretary. It is simply that Viktor Orbán has taken advantage of this regulation as a drug and cannot let go. Last year, 267 government decrees were issued on grounds of various emergencies. That's not normal, Mr. Secretary. That was 41.5 percent of government regulations. And for what, for example? The other very big question is that this is being abused, and they say that, no-no, you just want to deal with the crisis of war and the economic problems with this instrument. They made it easier to exonerate teachers in civil disobedience with immediate effect by means of a war decree! That, due to the war emergency, the employer must no longer fire the disobedient teacher within 15 days, but from learning about the year, until August 1 of the school year, any day, just to make the esteemed educators feel, in view of the war, how far they can go and how long they can't go. It's quite shameful. My fellow Members have already listed some cases, but, however, my fellow Members, the budget has been put out in a regulation, and the Fidesz majority here in Parliament is very happy to applaud! ? That they're making a clown out of this institution, that last summer, we're gonna accept a budget that everyone knew wouldn't be worth the spring, but not even winter, a year later, when inflation, energy prices and war are out of control, and then they're gonna take it by December and rewrite a country's budget with a government decree? ! Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be done in a country bar, let alone in a Parliament. And then they'll bring it back to the House a quarter of a year after it comes into force, and you'll see it's here, then you can talk about it. Ridiculous! And of course, before that, we needed unlimited regulation, for example, at Covid's time, to buy ventilators for 300 billion forints, the fate of which we still do not know. They say it's in storage, other information says they're gone, we couldn't get rid of them. And I'll keep it quiet that for a fraction of this overpriced acquisition, not too far from us, just a little south of here, the Prime Minister has just been sentenced to prison. But, obviously, under regulation governance, such accountability and accountability must not be possible. The problem, my fellow Members, and I have also seen in Mr Nacsa's speech that you sincerely believe that this is necessary. You honestly believe that after two years, there is no other way to govern this country, just as I have just mentioned, without asking you, even without asking the majority group of Fidesz, at 10:00 p.m., you can rewrite any laws you wish to the Hungarian government. Why? Because you see that this is effective, because you feel that you govern this country well, because you have once again obtained a two-thirds majority in the parliamentary elections. But I do not think that there is any good governance in which I look at my fellow Member as being deceived by people's paid taxes, cheating them, lying to their eyes through propaganda, keeping this country ignorant and misleading, only to maintain their political power. [[18.10]] Politics can't be all about it, and it's all about it. Because if you look at what has been achieved to curb inflation and maintain economic growth in your own goals, you have failed. They didn't fail, either, in cementing their own power. That's the one thing that's going really well with regulation. But you can't just say that. If you were to focus on the country's long-term goals, whether it is regulation governance or not, you know what you'd do? By ensuring that the education system is in order; by giving our children the knowledge that in the coming decades, this unfortunate country should not be the country of millions of people working as wage slaves, but rather a well-functioning, rich, good-life country; so that our older compatriots living here can at least have a decent health service if they have paid the money they have deducted from it for 40 and 50 years in their entire life. You should think about such things and bring them in, or think about how to make people raise their wages. When there was such an extraordinary government decree, when it comes to the economic crisis or inflation, Mr Secretary of State, which would have substantially increased the salary of the Hungarian people, so that they could at least be on the tree line compared to inflation. Well, they have everything in their hands. Isn't that what this is about? Ladies and gentlemen, This bill will obviously not be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party. I'll tell you why: because it's not in the interests of the Hungarian people. It is not in the interests of the Hungarian people that you need regulation governance, but in order to maintain your own political power, and I do not think that it can be supported fairly in this House. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-04-12-164	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-12-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to sum up the whole bill in a minute. I'd like to start with a fundamental amendment, and that's what I'd suggest to you. In essence, what should be said is that Hungary's state of affairs and the state of Hungary is an emergency from now on, we have already said this several times. You provide the emergency as a rake pasta, which, by the way, a lot of times, your public figures say is an emergency. They probably watched too many old series, or they find it difficult to remember the concept of emergency, as many times they still say a constitution instead of the Fundamental Law. I don't mind, by the way, but you guys need to keep an eye on the name of the Fundamental Law. That is clear, and we are already having many of these debates here in Parliament, and perhaps there are few arguments that would be as valid as Viktor Orbán steering the country from an emergency to an emergency. This is one of the basics that has always been correct in recent years. And I do not think that Hungary's state of affairs and the general functioning of the state itself, the legislation itself, and the legislation do not justify recourse to such an instrument. I would recommend that, not so long ago, the mandatory membership status of a Hungarian public body, the Hungarian Medical Chamber, was abolished in 24 hours. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] This was resolved relatively quickly. It was relatively quick to decide on EU issues, in which, I add, you were supported by the Jobbik-Conservatives, so that Hungary could receive the funds it needed as soon as possible. Thus, Parliament or legislation within the normal framework is essentially not hindered by anything. And what we assume for the future is that it is clear what you are visualizing and what you are saying, because it is classified as, let's say, situations, that the Fundamental Law has already established rules for those emergencies, that it has effective protocols, that there is no need to think ahead in this case of a continuous extension of the emergency. We could look for explanations as to why you are constantly extending it, perhaps because the Prime Minister has fallen in love with it, or perhaps you are trying to break into some kind of strange Guinness record, but none of the arguments that the representatives of Jobbik-Conservatives could accept, so we will not support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-04-12-166	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[There's no signal.]] No one's come forward. I ask: would anyone like to apply for further speeches? [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is therefore closed. I would like to ask Mr State Secretary, on behalf of the rapporteurs, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-04-12-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I can't deal with conspiracy theories. So whoever's doing these things here, I'm not gonna answer that. However, the government requests a constitutional mandate in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Fundamental Law. The Parliament meets continuously, operates continuously, the Parliament is able to perform its control tasks in its entirety. So everything the government is doing is under Parliament's control, any legislation, any government action. Thus, only and only when the situation, the emergency, requires the government to use these powers. That is why I ask you to consider supporting the law. Of course, I do not necessarily expect the opposition to do so, but I hope that at least they have no doubts about the purity of our intentions, because it is in our best interest that the emergency that requires this legislation, which requires this mandate, lasts as short as possible. This emergency has occurred for reasons outside of us or partly outside of us, but it is in the interests of the Hungarian people to prevent the emergency and to protect against the emergency. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-12-168	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a post-meeting speech, but he is not in the room. So we are going to speak after the agenda, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, with the title of our city, Pécs. You have the floor.
u2023-04-12-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have to talk about an issue that unfortunately arises many times in connection with the use of nuclear energy in the case of Pécs and Baranya. We do know that Pécs and Baranya, the area of Pécs, are affected or affected by nuclear energy on either side, let's say, by the dirty ends of the two. We know exactly that the government wants to build a so-called nuclear cemetery about six kilometers from the western border of the city of Pécs, which means a high-activity radioactive waste storage facility. The preparations have now been going on for a decade, despite the fact that the city has made it clear that it does not want to hear about such an establishment. We know that such a container is more precisely: such a container has not been built anywhere in the world, it is being tried in several places, but there are no satisfying answers to the questions of technology, financing or location selection. And by the way, we can also say that there is no such endeavor to build such a nuclear facility so close to such a large city. For our motion, the Pécs City Assembly adopted, by a large majority, a resolution stating that we do not want a nuclear cemetery near the city's borders. Nevertheless, billions are being spent on various research projects in relation to the choice of venue. Well, the other issue, which is now becoming much more topical, is the question of reopening the uranium mine. Now, we Pécs know for a fact that there once was a uranium mine on the city's border, and we also know how brutally environmental-destructive this has had. So anyone who knows the effects of the former uranium mine around Kővásőszőlős does not talk about using nuclear energy in any way green. [[18.20]] We know that the costs of this former uranium mine, the related regeneration, have already consumed tens of billions of forints, and this will be an unending task. But it occurred to them to open another uranium mine under Pécs, basically using a sloping mine. We know what effect the former uranium mine had on Pécs, what economic contexts it had, how many thousands of families have made their living. At the same time, this new uranium mine would, well, not be like this, give jobs to very few people, typically in jobs that Pécs can't fill. Nor would I pay the trade tax in Pécs, so we can say that this would only cause damage from an economic point of view, and on environmental and safety risks, I think it is not worth discussing, everyone recognises that these are very important. And in spite of the attempts on the uranium mine, the various attempts at authorisation are continuing, the region of Pécs and Pécs has also said that we do not want to hear about it. Over the past many years, I have asked several times from different positions and various forums what the government's position is about a new uranium mine, and I have always received statements in response that the government is not interested in it, the government does not care about it. At the end of last year, however, there was a change in this issue. At the last press conference at the end of last year Prime Minister Viktor Orbán replied to a journalist's question that we have uranium resources that are suitable for offering it in exchange for fuel, i.e. nuclear fuel. So Prime Minister Viktor Orbán outlined a plan of such a kind as if the government was preparing or having such a plan to mine uranium resources, using it, offering it to the Russians, it would be possible to obtain nuclear fuel through some kind of agreement. Well, that's a very hairy statement, you could say, to Pécs and his region, and I've been trying to find out what the content of this statement, what's behind it, what kind of government intent can be found. I asked the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Energy in charge of the case, and he could not answer that question. Of course, in the appropriate forums, I have submitted my questions as to what the Prime Minister might have thought, but it is quite clear that these plans, in whatever way the government intends to implement this, are not acceptable. By the way, in 2015, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán acknowledged at his press conference with the then mayor of Fidesz that a nuclear facility in the vicinity of Pécs could only be established with the consent of the locals. Well, we haven't been asked about a possible uranium mine or the construction of a nuclear cemetery. I think that we must give a very clear answer now, before, in any way, entering a phase, say, a mining plant formation or the creation of a mining right, when we can no longer do anything about it. I am not only seeking to see exactly what the government plans are, but I would like to see Pécs and Baranya draw up this very clear resolution that we cannot let this happen and we cannot allow a new uranium mine to be opened. Therefore, I will seek out all the Members of Parliament elected in Pécs and Baranya, and I will ask them together to make a statement for the sake of our city and county, so that no one can endanger the natural environment of Pécs and Baranya. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-04-12-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches after the agenda are over, and I thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its work at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
