u2023-03-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. I would like to inform you that today, in the leadership of this meeting, I will be assisted by Attila Gelencsér and notary Agnes Vadai. The 5th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to continue a debate that we started last week with the Prime Minister; when I told him that he wanted to turn Hungary into a battery ring, the Prime Minister said that I, and we from the LMP, are the greens against foreign capital. What does this situation look like, how are we with foreign capital? We are definitely against foreign capital, if these foreign capital investments, car manufacturers and battery companies are brought here means that in their interest, the nature conservation and environmental institution system will be dismantled, if all obstacles are removed from their path, so that they can freely exploit and exploit Hungary's natural and environmental resources. In the case of battery companies, we are talking about water, water and energy. During the energy crisis and the climate crisis, if there is little of anything, and if something needs to be protected, it is our water, our land, our soil and our energy. We are definitely against foreign capital if the introduction of foreign capital means exploiting Hungarian workers in addition to nature. You have to see how much Hungarian workers earn in these factories, in assembly plants. These wages fall far short of the income of workers working in similar foreign establishments. We are definitely against foreign capital, if your bringing you here is extremely expensive. We see that tax haven states have been developed in order to bring them here and keep these factories here, and we also see government subsidies in the form of various discounts, in the form of various indirect or direct subsidies that come into these foreign-owned companies. Practically with these grants, they help to return on their investment and help to realise their profits. Interestingly, the arctic spicy, my hairdresser, any Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneur does not support his investments, his profits, at least to this extent. This policy of turning Hungary into a battery ring seems to be proud and proud to advertise. This is what László Parragh talks about, among other things, who believes that competitiveness is guaranteed by cheap labour. László Parragh's words are always listened to by the Orbán government, honourable ministers, secretary of state, secretary of state, as this also means our competitiveness in the Fidesz concept, that it is as low as possible. [[Sic!]] the Hungarian labour force, the better, because the more these foreign capitalists can profit. This is what Péter Szijjártó is talking about, when he says that the introduction and operation of car factories is more important than climate protection objectives, so climate change here, climate change there, the important thing is that car factories and battery factories operate in Hungary. This is what Márton Nagy spoke about when he said that all taxpayers' forints should be dedicated to attracting these businesses here. If we look at last year's data, here's what we'll find. In 2022 alone, HUF 2600 billion was granted to these foreign multinational companies, and 75 percent of these subsidies were made up of battery production capacities. I was just talking about the size of the total investment, by the way. It is also apparent that a total of 44 battery manufacturing projects were decided to support from 2016 to 2022. Once again, this aid means that the government is helping to return on investment in these factories to such a huge extent. The 44 battery manufacturing projects, I think, clearly prove that they want to make this country a battery ring. We greens are against this policy, and we are against bringing such foreign capital here and supporting foreign capital, because it exploits our nature, exploits our workforce, because it is a foreigner, takes profits from here, and basically leaves pollution and environmental damage. We are protesting against this through popular vote initiatives, demonstrations and all other legal instruments. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-03-07-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. In response to the speaker's speech before the agenda, we will hear the answer from Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Battery manufacturing and the electric car industry are relatively new, not so much, but it is understandable, so naturally, if people feel alienated, there are those who are afraid of it, or you can say they are afraid of it. This is understandable, of course, and in the case of a new thing, it has to be understood, it has to be taken into account, so we understand and we are aware of it. That is why we say that the most important thing is to give clear and clear answers to the Hungarian people on such an important issue. The most important clear and clear answer and my most important statement is that no investment can be made in Hungary, not only a battery plant, but no other investment can be made if it does not comply with the strictest safety and environmental standards. Reverse: In Hungary, investment can only be made if the investor complies with the most important environmental and safety standards, which is expected by the Hungarian government, and the offices that issue the permits will comply with and enforce it. [[9.10]] However, I do not think it is right, honourable Member, that there are political groups, extremist groups, groups that call themselves green, dark green and all kinds of people, which arouse moods, excite emotions and spread false news. But before I give you an account of the international situation in battery production, allow me a few sentences to discuss your party, the LMP. There was an election last year, in this election the Hungarian people voted with a large majority and with record support to the Orbán government and did not ask for the Hungarian left. After that, your party leader, Péter Ungár, said that the LMP will quit the Gyurcsány Choir, now they will really represent the interests of the Hungarian people and will work for the Hungarian people, they heard what the Hungarian people said. I think, by the way, it's a respectable decision and a respectable intellectual work that your faction leader clearly did. I am sorry to see that for a short time, because you are now exactly where the rest of the Gyurcsány Choir is, and I would like to make it clear that you are saying exactly what the choir led by Ferenc Gyurcsány is saying. And perhaps so much here that this is what the left has always done during previous crises, namely, and specifically: they go against the Hungarian interest. It was the same with migration when they spoke against security, with the coronal virus, when they spoke against vaccines, at war, when they spoke against peace, and at sanctions, when they spoke in favour of sanctions. The same is the case at the battery companies now, and it may not be clear to everyone at the moment, but it will be revealed in a very short time. Now, about the battery companies, a few sentences, Your Honour. The whole world is building battery factories, I'd like to enlighten you. For example, the Chinese CATL company that you have attacked a lot, which is set up in Debrecen, has built a factory in Germany, and there, as you know, is a green and socialist coalition. The Green and Socialist Ministers, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Environment were all pleased and applauded that the authorisation process was fast, that it was one of the most important industrial investments in recent decades and that they were creating a battery valley in Türingia. But here's another thing: the same company, the CATL Chinese company, is building a battery factory in America, in cooperation with Ford, worth $3.5 billion. I'll tell you something else: in Germany there are 14 such factories, in America 40 are planned for those already operating. I tell you something else, honourable Member: in France, Renault is creating and building a battery factory with a Chinese-Japanese factory. I'll tell you something else, the president of the Slovak automotive association said, "It would be fatal for the country to miss the opportunity to have its own battery plant. .Frans Timmermans, your principle friend, Vice-President of the European Commission, who is not particularly friendly with the Hungarian government, said that we need to produce batteries in Europe. But let me tell you something else: my former opponent, Bernadett Szél, said: "The winners of the era of electric cars, renewable energy, green light, smart devices and smart cities must be Hungarians, winners of electric cars. Erzsébet Schmuck said that electric motoring is unstoppable, and it is expected that the number of electric cars will increase greatly. What are we gonna do about it? We're locking ourselves in the structure of the past. And Péter Ungár said that the real reduction would be if the state spent more money to increase electromobility. What happened, Your Honour? The dollars came, the phone rang, or why did they move away from the interests of Hungary? Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Timea Szabó's speech before the agenda, from the Group of Dialogue. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2023-03-07-5	Ladies and gentlemen, The Dialogue is also convinced that the installation of the Chinese CATL battery plant in Debrecen violates both Hungarian and European law, so Benedek Jávor, former MEP of the Dialogue, complained to the European Commission about this. [[Csaba Dömötör: Defiance.]] It is always sad when Hungarians have to be protected from the crimes of their own government before a European forum, but sometimes unfortunately there is no other option. The Hungarian authorities have shown almost no resistance to energy and water wasting giants using cheap-wage foreigners. As far as Hungarian law is concerned, according to the soil protection law, it is prohibited to reclassify agricultural land of higher quality than average for industrial purposes, and the laws transposing the Aarhus Convention make it compulsory to inform the population in advance and to include it in the decision before major investments with significant environmental impact. Orbán and Judit Varga failed to comply with either of them in their perfect rule of law, they canceled the referendum attempt, they refused to let the domestic population interfere, and they gave the highest quality agricultural land to the battery factory next to Debrecen. But there are other violations of EU law here. The environmental impacts of the Debrecen battery plant are not sufficiently estimated despite the recent environmental permit, and the permit does not account for many environmental impacts, in particular the cumulative impact of the water use of the multi-stage plant. Not only does this make the authorisation vulnerable under domestic law, but it also violates the European Union's law. This is the starting point for the dialogue complaint. The complaint also refers to the assessment report for hydrocarbon research in the region, which states, quote: . The quantitative condition of shallow, porous water bodies in the area is weak or uncertain. The poor rating is due to the sinking of groundwater levels and the state of ecosystems dependent on groundwater on land. It also mentions a 2013 doctoral thesis, which states that the amount of water that is replaced on Debrecen's water base takes into account a longer period of 60 thousand cubic meters/day, while the daily demand for public and industrial water, the use is 40-50 thousand cubic metres/day, i.e. it no longer covers the same water demand of the factory, especially with an intensely decreasing groundwater mirror in the area of Debrecen, a tens of kilometers in diameter, where the groundwater level is many metres below the surrounding groundwater levels. [[9.20]] In this respect, Debrecen is the country's fastest sinking area. Debrecen I and II. water production plants are already heavily over-pumped today, and the extractive effect of production has a very negative impact on the water supply of the Great Forest in Debrecen in the Natura 2000 area, and therefore it is not possible to achieve the good ecological status provided for in the EU Water Framework Directive. In this situation, there would be a legal justification for an obstacle to improvement, including a revision of water usage permits, but instead a minimum of 20-25 thousand plants with water requirements of up to 40-60 thousand cubic metres per day are being authorised on the basis of some professional estimates. It is clear that this is a direct obstacle to the implementation of the Water Framework Directive. Yesterday, Péter Szijjártó said that the daily water consumption of the Debrecen battery plant is 3,000 cubic meters per day, which is quite simply a lie, because we know that if the Göd factory uses 27,000 cubic meters per day, then the three times the capacity of the Debrecen plant can be used ten times as big. So at least don't lie so much, fellow Members. The negative impact on groundwater bases harms ecosystems dependent on them, including areas protected by several domestic or European law, which violates EU Habitats and Birds Directives. Mr. Secretary of State referred to the factory in Thuringia. The big difference is that the capacity of the Türingian factory is 14 gigawatts, and the design of Debrecen is 100 gigawatts, so close to the tenth or eighth of the Türingian factory, and it was built not directly next to the city, but further away from it. And in the U.S., it was built in a desert, also not near the city. We ask you to consider this seriously polluting plan, which is a real threat to water bases, which cripples people's lives and the lives of future generations, with no added value, and to move on to an environmental investment. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2023-03-07-6	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has responded to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State, Deputy Minister.
u2023-03-07-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for informing us that former Congressman Benedek Jávor is back in his own country. This is not the first time, we are following his career, he is the one who believes that sanctions should be introduced because Hungary has to learn the historical lesson. It's his attitude to his own country. As far as battery production is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the European Union has done almost everything for electric cars. From 2035 only electric cars can be placed on the European market. From now on, the question is where the centres of this new green industry will be in Europe. Many states have entered this competition, France, Italy, Germany and the Eastern European states, such as Romania, the Czech Republic, and the largest of them are already operating in Poland. So the question is that in Hungary, car manufacturing will take place under such changing conditions in the future. The stakes are not small, 160,000 Hungarian jobs are already connected to the automotive industry. So when you are attacking these investments, you are also putting these jobs at risk. As regards environmental rules: there are very strict environmental rules for water quality, air quality, noise load, soil protection, and dog duty for all investors, whether foreign or Hungarian, to comply with these rules. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in most cases these rules are even stricter than the minimum EU rules. There were a lot of words on the day of debate that, if I recall correctly, you initiated. He's been here for hours and hours and nights. I would also like the Debrecen to know that on this day of debate, which you initiated, you did not attend at all. Right, Congresswoman? [[Szabó Timea: The Dialogue was here, participated in it!]] They even demanded an extraordinary meeting, but when there was a multi-hour debate day here in Parliament, the Member who initiated the debate did not participate. I want the Debrecen to know that. [[Szabó Timea: That was a very weak argument!]] I would also like to ask that if you are attacking investments, please remain on the ground of reality. For example, in the case of the investment in Göd, do not claim to poison the entire Pest County water supply. [[Szabó Timea: Did I say that? I didn't!]] So the rumors are not in the interest of investments, of Hungary or of jobs. There's one more thing I'd like to discuss. You would have sent the Minister of Foreign Affairs to Moscow several times yesterday to arrange Russia's withdrawal from Ukraine. There's a frivolous part of this idea. You don't really think Hungary can end this war, do you? We can stay out, but we can't end this war on our own, at least we need Russian-American negotiations. However, the suggestion in another approach makes me wonder. You think politicians can be sent here and there. That's not how we do it. This may work for you, but it doesn't work for us. I do not know, for example, that you were sent by someone, but I do know that what they represent was not requested in Hungary. I'm not even thinking that your party, Dialogue, never took the liberty of running on its own. [[Szabó Timea: And the party KDNP was elected on its own?]] rather than suggesting a lot of things over the last few months, but they don't help the country by any chance. Is sending a gun good for the country? No, but they did. Is the energy guarantee good for the country? No, they didn't, but they did. [[Szabó Timea: Orbán voted in favour of sanctions!]]
u2023-03-07-8	She's a director of the arts.
u2023-03-07-9	Is it good for the country to turn off the gas tap? It's not good at all, it's not good at all, but it was demanded. Or to mention another topic: could the EU's resources already come to us? Very much, yet they are campaigning against it, and if you have to vote here in Parliament, you will not vote for it. It is possible, honourable Member, that you have received your salary in dollars several times in your career. After all, it's not too surprising that their campaign was staged in dollars. We don't really know what the solution is for your business, maybe we'll take a dollar and write the most important message with a black marker, that the Hungarians don't want a war, they don't want to send a gun, they don't want decisions that hurt us the most, and I don't think politicians who won't take that into account. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Madam Dóra Dúró, vice-president of the Parliament, from the group of our countries, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'd like to talk to you about a child abuse case that happened at a school in Aszod, where two or three aggressors practically terrorized her, terrorized her classmates, and the school principal wrote that she couldn't guarantee the physical integrity of the abused students at school. In November, the parent of the child concerned notified the homeroom teacher of the abuse, but nothing happened thereafter. In January, by adding photos of the abused child, he repeatedly told the homeroom teacher about the bruises that the child comes home from the school, but nothing happened. On February 14th, the case went so far that the child was punched in the nose by a classmate and a piece of his nose broke. It all came out because they couldn't stop the nosebleeds at school, so they moved him to the emergency department at the 60th hospital, but the child was so intimidated that he didn't dare tell the doctors that it was an assault, he said it was just an accident. It was the doctor who recognized that this injury could not come from an accident, but from aggression, and only after that the child dared to tell the doctors what it was about. After that, the 60th hospital made the complaint, so it became a police matter, and then a week later, the rest of the class, breaking up emotional barriers, dared to admit to the principal that they were also being subjected to a series of abuse at school. There was a girl who got kicked in the stomach, forced children to beat others up, threatened that if they didn't beat their partner, they would beat her up, spit on the kids, and verbally assault a girl by telling her that her mother killed herself because she couldn't bear having such an ugly daughter. [[9.30]] After the school principal finds out about this, imagine nothing happened. These children continued to go to school with their fearsome classmates for weeks. He knew about the case, the cases in the school district, the school principal, the department, the police, and nobody did anything. In fact, do you know what ended the story? The abused child had to be removed from school by his parents, because as a result of disciplinary action, the abusers received virtually no punishment, for example, one of the instigators, and you, who had broken the nose, could continue to stay in this class. And this case, like a drop in the sea, shows what this educational system is and what child protection has been like in Hungary for 30 years. [[Dr. István Apáti: Zero! Zero!]] How can a school principal put it in writing to the parent! That you can't guarantee that your child will not continue to be subjected to verbal and physical abuse? How can something like this happen in Hungary? How can a school principal be able not only to say this but also to describe it to the parent? ! [[Dr. István Apáti: You must fire him!]] He is the brother of the Fidesz president of the Nógrád Vármegye General Assembly. [[Dr. István Apáti: He must be fired too!]] And it is only the Hungarian Movement who raises his word in such cases, and we say that the situation that has been going on for thirty years under socialist governments and fidesz governments is not possible because it is unfair for the family of the victim to buy their tent tree and go to another school, because the Hungarian state is unable to provide a child with a safe, healthy education, which is also laid down in the Public Education Act, guaranteeing physical integrity in a school. What is happening in the Hungarian education system is outrageous. And an aggressor must be removed at this time, even if it is actually called Lakatos, as in this case. ♪ 'Cause I can't stand it anymore ♪ [[Dr. István Apáti: Definitely!]] What is going on in Hungary is that some people think that they can do that to their classmate; everyone is covering for them, the police are not doing anything, they promise to call the victim's mother back, and then they don't call her back; if the mother has to look for a psychologist, she has to call 17 places before a psychologist talks to her, because no one wants to go to the police or to court. It's outrageous! There is a need for segregation. [[Dr. István Apáti: Protected minority!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-07-12	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Vice-President, Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, replied to her speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I'd split my answer into two parts; one would deal with the rational part of the matter and the other with the emotional part of it, if you'd allow it. First of all, as may have been said many times this week in Parliament, it is very important that all parents, when sending their children to school, feel that their children are safe. We have made countless laws to ensure that children, teachers and everyone at school can feel safe, so we have also amended the penal code to better protect teachers from any school aggression, and therefore we have also tightened the punishment for children and juvenile abuse so that children are safer within the school walls. In order for a student or a parent to be able to turn to or even a teacher to be able to turn to, if they act aggressively against him or are being abused or threatened, that is why the school guards are there; therefore, every school where they asked to be a schoolkeeper, trained, trained, obviously sent in local conflicts, whether verbal or physical conflicts, in order for everyone to feel safe, no one, no children, no educator should be afraid of harm. I don't know if the school you were talking about claimed the school guard or not. That's exactly why the school warden is trying to prevent either a fight between children or aggression against teachers or any such aggression. And as was also discussed in Parliament this week, this is why we specifically called the children's attention to child protection representatives at all schools on the 06-80-620055 poster. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] so that if this happens to anyone, he can act on it. (Dóra Dúró interrupts.) We will continue to do what we can to protect children, because it is an extremely important obligation. So much for the rational part. The other: I feel that your speech was, in part, that it was really necessary to protect all children in schools quite rightly, but rather, it was an angry stand in favour of segregation, and thus obviously to arouse the mood or emotions of the gypsy. [[Dr. István Apáti: Postjudication! Postjudication and experience! The president's ringing the bell.]] This is obviously why the honourable Member said her last name was Lakatos, so she said that segregation [[Dr. István Apáti: It's not our fault!]] 'Cause that's what he wrote about in such a small, better wrapped way; we've heard it in a rougher way, at least you gave it some form. This is, however, a very important issue, and indeed, we believe that this should be addressed; because the fact that there is such a situation at school is likely to result in a similar situation in the settlement, and what is happening at school is obviously not only an aggressive situation between children, but also between the settlement and the parents, if not a physical conflict, but there may be tension. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] Here, however, we see the future of this not by you and the SZDSZ, in the fundamental rights model carried by the Liberals, in translating different social groups against each other, not as the legal struggle we have seen before, but as we believe that the important thing in this is what we take with the Presence Programme, which we take with job creation. With a million more jobs in Hungary, more people have a regular working schedule. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] So many more children see that their parents get up early in the morning, raise the alarm, and go to their workplace, and they go to school, so that we can come out of this situation, honourable Member. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes. Dr. István Apáti: Boxing is part of culture, boxing! Dóra Dúró: He broke the child's nose!]] This is the direction; or what we do in the 300 most difficult settlements together with the Maltese Charity Service and other organizations is to go there and give them the help they need. In one of the settlements we created an energy community with a common solar element, which could be joined by a person who had a prepaid meter so that he would not accumulate a great disadvantage in utility charges, but also pay attention to consumption. To go to training; to create a safe start; to create new playgrounds, where, let's say, the charity staff and parents can meet and help them on this path. And first they bought a minivan to get them into the workplace; when they had been working for a year or two, they didn't need the van, because everyone had a car and could get in with it, then they needed a different kind of support in 300 settlements with 300 solutions. You can do the same thing as the liberals, except with the opposite omen. It is possible to capitalise on political capital by inciting anyone against Hungarian speaking Hungarian people in Hungary. [[Dóra Dúró: He broke the kid's nose!]] And obviously, there are people among the Gypsies who are more diligent, some less so than the Hungarian people. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There are also industrious, less hardworking ones among them. What you're saying is that it's stressful, but we haven't seen a real solution from you in any of the settlements you run. They can sound, they can shout. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] In the settlements that you run, there are no good examples. Therefore, it is not worth listening to you on this subject. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Brenner Koloman of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Jobbik-Conservatives [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] For him the issue of education is a priority issue of national strategy, which is why we feel it is of paramount importance to say that Hungarian teachers are not servants to be dismissed as Fidesz governments, but responsible intellectuals. If we look at the concept of the Public Education Act that is being negotiated with the trade unions yesterday, then it is clear that, for example, the evaluation system that you wish to introduce and, if I have read it correctly, this has already started in February as an experimental practice in some schools, it is actually happening with a flawed concept and a bad methodology because it is trying to evaluate the same teachers' colleagues in school, who then teach in a dorm every day. Don't get me wrong, our conservative political community has been saying for many years that quality control and a supportive, modernized system of supervision would be extremely necessary, but please, this system, which on the one hand is infinitely unfair, and it also arouses tensions among teachers, as it involves consistency in paying them, instead this concept will certainly not solve the question of how many teachers are missing from the Hungarian education system. [[9.40]] We believe that, on the one hand, this issue can be resolved as a zero step by an immediate 50 per cent wage increase, and that our proposal on this issue has also been tabled as an amendment to the budget. I would like you to consider, my fellow Members, that you support this proposal, because this would be the solution to the lack of teachers, and then we have proposed a national round table to which all stakeholders would be involved before, because all international experience shows that the development of the quality of education can only be implemented in a country on a comprehensive basis, if there is at least one national consensus on what strategic goals, methods and tools are. We're partners in this. We have a fully mature and comprehensive educational concept based on civil and conservative values. The other issue I would like to talk about is the issue of the Hungarian university world, since Minister Navracsics has sent his proposal to the European Union to make sure that it is now with certain university curators. First of all, I would like to say that this kind of bargaining is about the fact that the ministers are not now, but the Member is, that for six years now we will finally limit the membership of the Curatorium for an unlimited period of time, and now the European Union, if I have seen it correctly, has sent back a message that it cannot be a Member or a Mayor, and that there should be only two or four years. So I think this whole negotiation process is extremely bad for the Hungarian university world. The fundamental question is that the autonomy of the university, the competence of the Senate, is severely limited by this form of foundation, and for us in the European culture, university autonomy is a conservative value, which we have always raised our voice, and I myself personally, as rapporteur of the Council of Europe, on academic freedom and academic autonomy. I think that the most important step in this matter would not be to negotiate like a kofa on the market for European Union funds, but to start negotiations immediately, as we propose, in the case of major universities, at least immediately, about restoring state reservations. After all, I stress in continental Europe, not in the Anglo-Saxon world, which, after completely different cultural and economic development, operates large universities as foundations, and in our region, our competitors say this as former university leaders from the University of Prague to the University of Vienna are all state-owned and not the foundation form is from the devil. I always say this, but in the case of major universities, state aid must be restored, and in the case of universities currently financed by the state, ELTE, Technical University and some small universities, I also submitted a budget amendment to ensure that the existing pay gap can be settled for my academic colleagues, because you are currently punishing state-owned universities. Please consider the forward thoughts I have just shared with you. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-07-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. On the part of the Government, the Member's speech before the agenda is answered by Deputy Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, as a member of a party claiming to be a conservative right-wing party on paper, I have to say that you are once again lining up with the Hungarian left, who says the Brussels dictatorship. So much for the true orientation of your party. I must strongly reject the fact that the Hungarian government would jeopardise Hungarian university autonomy. What makes you think that, Your Honour? He is not trying to conclude this by giving Hungary the opportunity to introduce the foundation model in order to renew higher education, following international and otherwise stressing EU practice. As an educational professional, I think you should know exactly [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That was strong from your mouth, baby.]] the involvement of external stakeholders in the functioning of higher education institutions is a typical international trend over the past decade. I would like to emphasise once again that not only in the world, not in the larger countries of the world, but also in the European Union, the world's leading universities operate in a foundation model. Such is Harvard, Princeton or even Yale University, and there are politicians in the Curatorium of universities in Western Europe. Do you think that university autonomy is at risk for them? Because if you don't, then you've joined the Brussels and Hungary's left-wing opinion makers using double standards against our country. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Professionally zero!]] The results of the university model change against your claim are indisputable. There has been a successful turn of competitiveness in Hungarian higher education, which is objectively justified by the international ranking of Hungarian universities. One of the world's largest university rankings, Times Higher Education, published its most recent university rankings on 16 October, with 9 Hungarian universities in 2021 and 11 Hungarian universities in 2022 with the top 5 percent, with two thirds of the students. Announcements in international databases, i.e. the number of references for model-shifting universities combined, increased by 18 percent over a year compared to 2020. The number of top 50 percent communications in its field increased by 26 percent in 2021 for model-shifting universities compared to 2020. We have also achieved a significant increase in the number of foreign students. Compared to the 2013 level, it increased by nearly 74 percent until 2022, according to the latest statistics, more than 41,000 people attend Hungarian universities. It is also important to note that while in 2010, 69 percent of students had access to state-funded seats, today this proportion is 82 percent. In addition, a wide scholarship net helps our students. Universities can use scholarships for talent, social, educational, community and mobility, with 33 programmes supporting more than 170 000 students in total worth HUF 72 billion. As far as the demands in Brussels are concerned, honourable Member, let us be clear. In 2022, we fulfilled our commitments during the conditioning procedure until the end of September 2022. It is therefore our firm position that Brussels claims do not have an EU legal basis. We would like to obtain the funds for Hungary naturally, and I think that the Hungarian opposition would also have a dog's duty to help Hungarian students and Hungarian families in this regard, especially those who now call themselves conservatives. By the way, we are in the middle of a negotiation process, the next part of which, as you have mentioned, will be the negotiations of Minister Navracsics in Brussels, and we will naturally seek agreement, precisely so that there will be a scholarship programme, but whether we agree with Brussels or not, the Hungarian Government will definitely pay the scholarships. In this case, if there is no agreement with Brussels, the Hungarian budget will stand, because we, unlike you, will not allow the Hungarian students to be the victims of the Brussels policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-18	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the MSZP Group, Mr Zsolt Molnár applied for a speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the next few hours here in Parliament, we will be talking about war and peace, a very important issue that is very topical for all of us. We were interested in watching the Fidesz faction leader come up with a peace declaration, and he talked about the need for it. However, our interest was mixed with suspicion, as we know your trap policy when you create situations where you can only choose between bad and bad many times to the opposition parties, largely abusing Parliament's order of business. However, in this peace competition announced by Fidesz, let us say that this is who is more pro-peaceist than we are patriotic social democrats. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We will be tough opponents if you announce this and do not back down on this issue, because it is clear that you have announced a competition that is more pro-peace in front of the Hungarian electorate. [[9.50]] Yes, we patriot social democrats, if you want a real consensus, then we could be partners in a peace declaration that is really about peace. However, we will be tough opponents, since our history, the history of the social democrats of the world, and I am not talking about the communists or proletarians of the world, has spoken of nothing but peace fighting, when, to a large extent, the youth of right-wing parties, which form your spiritual ancestors, went to a slaughterhouse voluntarily and singing in the first world burn. We know Hungarian history well and who knows Hungarian history, for example I was there in the military cemeteries of the Don turn, and I paid my respects to the tens of thousands of Hungarian soldiers who gave their lives in their 20s for a bad cause-- we know Hungarian history and know our responsibility for peace. If it weren't forbid, I could've dressed like a peace pigeon. We're so pro-peace. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But we must ask what this statement is about, where the ambush is. Although your statement has some eligible points, because let's say yes, there are points in it that we agree with, not only with the term "peace" but also with which we refer to Transcarpathia; we support continuing to provide all kinds of assistance and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine and Transcarpathia; we also feel responsible for the Hungarians there; we understand the reference to NATO and the European Union, we also agree with that; we also agree with the designation of aggressor. However, where is the ambush situation? The ambush is that you are smuggling party policy issues like inflation into this declaration, which is not the sole cause of war, but also your tax policy, the very high taxes on food, and the issue of national consultation, which is about 1.4 million people being set up for the majority of the country. We are asking you to stop this trap policy, and it really is about peace and a declaration that is not in your party policy interests. Of course, we, patriotic social democrats, have responded prepared for this trap situation, when, by the way, we have submitted a UN declaration supported by the Hungarian government, a declaration accepted by the UN General Assembly by more than three quarters, and if it is a question of vanity, whose declaration we will accept, then submit it to you. After all, the problem with your statement is not peace, not the references that really serve the interests of the nation, but the problem is that they want to legitimize current issues such as inflation or the issue of national consultation with us, because if we vote in favour of this statement, we are going to legitimise your wrong policy, if we do not vote in favour of war. But, as we know, the eternal saying that whoever digs a pit for someone else should be careful not to fall into it, because it was supported by the Hungarian government, and the Prime Minister of Hungary also spoke positively about this UN resolution. We therefore ask you to turn back from this faulty path, to establish a real national consensus on this issue at least, because Hungarian history, that stormy Hungarian history, our past over a thousand years ago, to have a national consensus on this issue, on the issue of war, and finally to overcome party politics. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-03-07-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Deputy Minister of State, responds to his speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We look with interest at the identity search and the new definition of left-wing parties. We've heard of Jobbik being conservative, all by running with post-communists on an election list and people who support anti-fa. Now it turns out that the MSZP is a patriot social democratic party. [[Bence Rétvári: What will happen next week?]] All this is said about the party that campaigned against Hungarians before a referendum, and I could say much more. What's more surprising is that our country would say that they're the liberal leader, really. [[Dóra Dúró: We don't say that! Defiance.]] That is not the most important question, but we look at it with interest. As for peace. I understand the attempt to say that just because the word "peace" was used in the 1950s, they are trying to prove that if the governing parties are talking about peace now, they are, in fact, communists. Good luck trying this. So simply because the Communists used the term "peace" in the 1950s, otherwise in a twisted way, that is not a reason for us not to fight for peace now. If you ask the Hungarians, you look at the results of the election, you look at the current surveys, the Hungarians want peace! So it's worth asking what's at stake here. If someone looks at the Member States' offers or even the European Parliament's resolution, he sees that this continent is unfortunately preparing for war. The common thing in these resolutions is that they are dominated by a great deal of optimism, which is somehow about sending as many weapons as possible, and then the war will be over very quickly. That's what they thought in 1914, and then we know what happened. A year ago, they were talking about helmets and humanitarian aid, and now they're talking about how to send fighters, rocket systems, and tanks. Instead of "peace" it's now in the "Weapon." This is where we came in. This is why we believe it is important that the Hungarian Parliament also sets out its position on the war in a resolution. We know that there is a UN resolution, we know the decision of the European Parliament, and we take these into account. We are not happy with the European Parliament, but the Hungarian Parliament also has to give its opinion, not to measure this opinion to others, but to start from what Hungarians want and what is in the interests of this country. And a return and return speech from the left-wing parties, by the way, that the government does not condemn Russian military aggression. That's just not true. Just because many people say it and say it abroad doesn't mean it's true. In the days, for example, his fellow Member of the moment demanded with great vehemency that the governing parties also condemn Russian military intervention on the basis of our obligation in 56. They also suggested that Fidesz 15 years ago would have condemned him. I regret that they have failed to reach the second point of the resolution, not the second point, but the second point, because it is in it that we repeatedly condemn Russia's military aggression and recognise Ukraine's right to self-defense. By the way, the word "supplied" is included because the previous decision has already condemned intervention. The resolution also asks all public actors to refrain from resolutions that would lead to Hungary's drift into war. You said you'd dress like a pigeon. That's all well and good, but it wasn't us, but the left-wing parties, who would have sent a gun right from the start, would have sent a soldier. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár: I don't.]] Maybe you didn't, but there is a single left that started together on an election list, started together, and that was the ruling position. When a government representative is arguing with a left-wing Member, it turns out they're sending a gun. So if you're saying you don't support this, then you're the only one on the left. If we look at the last few months, we can see that opposition representatives would have turned to war at every major decision point. I could also say, after a year, that the sky is blue, the grass is green, and the left would continue to send weapons to the battlefield. The main difference, then, is that while the left would drag the entire country into war, we would spare even the left-wing hawks from this war. We ask you once again to take into account the outcome of last year's election, and I understand the preliminary explanation of the decision, but ultimately it will all depend on a single push of a button, and the question is whether you support this peace resolution or do not support it, everything else is just an explanation. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the DK Group, MEP Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Many people today think that our most important problems are not robotisation and the spread of artificial intelligence, that this must be some distant future thing we do not have to deal with, because we have other problems, for example, due to the inflation generated by the Orbán government, the thousand forints of bread or the multiplicity of gas prices. I am sure that there are one million people among whom there are substantial risks to their jobs if the government is not prepared for the expansion of automation. Yeah, according to all the forecasts, that's exactly the case. [[10.00]] Robotization threatens the workplace of one in five Hungarians. That is why I am speaking here in Parliament before you today, and I call on the government to take an active, immediate step so that we do not endanger the jobs of a million people. When we look at the areas most affected, we see that they are the ones in which most people work. On the basis of the data at the end of the year 2020, most of the public employees work in the industrial sector, including manufacturing, which is 690 thousand people. This is followed by the trade and repair sector, which employs 397 thousand people, as well as transport and storage, which is a daily livelihood for 214 thousand people. According to the Institute for Economic and Entrepreneurship Research, today there are 93 professions that can be partly automated, 90 professions that can be largely automated, and 26 professions in which robots can fully replace human work. If we add that, on the basis of a survey conducted in the private sector and among entrepreneurs, the aim of manufacturers is to replace 20-40 percent of the workforce with industrial machines in the next 5-10 years, I say once again with robots: 20 and 40 percent of entrepreneurs want to replace robots, industrial machines, now, we see that this is not about a distant future, but about today and tomorrow. Business plans that start with mass layoffs and end with roboticisation are already being written. Experts estimate that the number of industrial robots sold in Central and Eastern Europe increased by 28 percent already in 2018, and that this will only increase dramatically in the next period. Give yourself the question of what can be done in this situation. The answers you're used to putting around the country with giant posters won't work. According to the shadow government, the only solution is to invest in people and to engage in a strategic partnership with them; especially because robotisation, artificial intelligence, is most affected by disadvantaged social groups. If we give them the ability, if we train them in advance and prepare them for the development of their work, so that they can stand up in their new jobs later, then we can face the harmful effects of robotisation, then we can start them in the direction of living in European prosperity. To do this, we should already see who and how to retrain, and to do so, we should, for example, support research on roboticisation in public universities today. I would like to note here that it is a pity that there is virtually hardly any state university left in Hungary! Dear Government, You have created a strategy for artificial intelligence, setting targets for 2030. I've asked you a number of questions as to how we are currently doing with these goals, and you said that by 2030, two million citizens will be actively involved in the care and use of their own data in the future. Where are we now? They said that, by 2030, artificial intelligence will be integrated into the health care system and three million citizens will receive modern services based on artificial intelligence through the integrated digital health system. How are we doing? They said that they would achieve an average productivity increase of 26 per cent by 30 per cent in the Hungarian corporate sector. How are we doing today? They said that ammonia emissions are reduced by 32 percent in agriculture, thanks to the use of data-based systems. How are we doing today? They said that 60 percent of the administration would be done electronically, self-serving in the future. How are we doing today? You refused to answer that. I ask you to monitor it every year. The fact that the daily work of one million people will change to a smaller and greater extent cannot be prevented, but it can be prevented that the jobs of these people will be completely lost. I ask you to take seriously the tasks ahead of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-07-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Vice-President, in his speech before the agenda, we will hear the answer from Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary. Here you go, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-07-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The question before the agenda by Mr President is an age-old one, so it does not concern a day-to-day task, but we believe that this is timely and must be monitored constantly. Anyone who knows the history of the world economy, including the economic history of Europe and Hungary, has been able to keep track of how and in what way changes in industrial technology have contributed to the development and development of a given society since the industrial revolution. Where it wasn't prepared in time, it caused conflicts, see the mid-1800s, let's say, the luddists, the machine destroyers. Obviously, there wasn't an appropriate answer. Obviously, in the middle of the last century, when electricity transformed the entire society, which used to use steam, there was not sufficient preparation. We are living in a similar age now, when roboticization, artificial intelligence and automation, mentioned by you, fundamentally alters the Ipai structures, fundamentally changes the economy, fundamentally changes society. Therefore, it does not matter how consciously a country prepares for this and how much it can provide the general environment for the implementation of this essential task. Maybe I'll start with the latter, because you said so yourself. The government has prepared a strategy for 2030. This strategy has the right elements, the target indicators, the definition of objectives that directly affect citizens, the objectives adapted to technological development and development, and the indicators used to measure them. And, of course, there is also the economic background that ensures that this is achieved pro rata to time. Bracket: he asked where we were. Please keep track of the statistical data, the current data on the implementation of this strategy, which are, of course, adapted to the performances of a given year or a narrower or wider era, can be read from the reports of the HCSO. In answering this question, perhaps more general attention should be paid to how ready the Hungarian economy is to accept it, how capable we are of taking note of the command word for development. In 2022, Hungarian GDP increased by 4.6 percent, so all the difficult circumstances, all the wars, all the inflation in Brussels, and despite this, the economy remained on an evolving trend, and the country remained on a growing trend. This year, in the circumstances you probably know, we expect a more modest, but about a 1.5 percent increase, confident that the next year will bring about an economic rebound that is significantly better than this, which we consider to be an increase of more than 4 percent. The person who followed our meeting yesterday could also hear from the presentation by Minister for Foreign Affairs that in 2022 the level of investment reached a peak, was close to HUF 19 000 billion, the investment rate was 28,5 percent, and not least you mentioned the workforce today one million more people are working in Hungary than 12 years ago. Of course, the task you are mentioning is that the continuous training, restructuring and restructuring of this workforce is necessary. This is also supported by the reforms that we have implemented both in secondary and higher education, which provide a way and opportunity for higher education to meet the goals that you also want. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.10]]
u2023-03-07-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Imre Vejkey has applied for a speech from the KDNP Group before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-27	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Russian-Ukrainian war has been going on for over a year. The inefficiencies of the one-year sanction tsunami against Russia are clear. The elite in Brussels, however, seems to have some sort of livelihoodal need, constantly thinking about what could be further sanctioned. The recently adopted tenth sanction package has already been a little low, focused on trade restrictions for dual-use items and sanctions for a few hundred more individuals and organisations. However, the politicians in Brussels have triumphantly told the world that they have now shown it. According to the Swedes, the strongest and farthest sanctions have been introduced to help Ukraine win the war. According to Ursula von der Leyen, the sanction package has been deeply bitten into the Russian economy. However, the fact is that the sanctions thus imposed did not achieve the collapse of the Russian economy. That is, what the Brussels politicians, the Brussels bureaucrats, are talking about is a fantasy, but not a reality. Ladies and Gentlemen, The reality is that Putin's war machine and Russia have not been weakened so far. However, the European economy is in ruins, but Russia has become richer, thanks to the sanctions that have allowed the prices of energy sources to drop, so that they have achieved record revenues by selling less gas and oil. According to the Brussels narrative, Europe does not suffer the effects of sanctions in almost no way, and we find that it is not true. In the case of action against Russia, it can be seen from the outset that sanctions are three times the price of products that are included in them. At first, there was an increase when the idea of a criminal measure was formulated in the minds of the politicians in Brussels and it was ventilated. Secondly, the increase occurred when the politicians in Brussels took action; thirdly, when the sanctions actually came into force. Ladies and Gentlemen, The entry into force of sanctions has led to price shocks in world and regional markets, resulting in long-term hyperflationary. What's happened in the last year is far beyond rationalism. Despite the penalty war, the common will of the EU Member States, Brussels should not be concerned with the interests of a Member State, but with the interests of the people of Europe, but it does not. You feel like Brussels politicians are deliberately weakening Europe. We are getting to the point that, unfortunately, after the many sanctions packages, the statement that Europe is virtually over will be the basis for reality. Hungary is in solidarity with the Western federal system and therefore does not oppose all sanctions, only those that go against the fundamental economic interests of our country. However, with the adoption of newer and more sanctions, it became increasingly clear that energy prices did not return to pre-war levels, the price of gas remained three times higher than the pre-war prices after the uploading of gas reservoirs in Europe. Hungary is therefore still not contributing to gas, oil and nuclear sanctions that would destroy Hungary. But why is there sanctions for inflation all over Europe? Prime Minister Viktor Orbán pointed out this question. Ladies and Gentlemen, If the war continues, more and more will die, and the threat of hyperinflationary and economic collapse will be permanent, and no one in the world will feel safe, and war can easily spread worldwide. In this war, no one can win but the number of losers and the amount of losses will rise. We need a ceasefire and peace talks. We want peace. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to Mr Dömötör Csaba, Deputy Minister of State, will be given to Mr Dömötör in his speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Hungary's economic space is now determined by two main things: war and economic policy decisions in Brussels. For some time now, the time has come for a change of direction, mainly because, in an economic sense, the European Union is now the biggest victim of the current situation after Ukraine. The Russian economic downturn has become smaller than expected, while Europe can only get more energy. This undermines its competitiveness so much that, after the war started, the EU presents the biggest economic downturn among the world's dominant economic regions. It shouldn't have been like this. There are also sanctioned beneficiaries: large energy companies that make huge sums of money by dropping Russian energy from the European market, and also by skyrocketing energy prices. Shell, for example, made a profit of HUF 15,000 billion. This is a record in the company's history and doubles the 2021 profit. Chevron in America can generate a profit of HUF 13,000 billion, which is also double the profit of the previous year. But even more than that, he's made an amazing profit on the American Exxon. The profit of 21,000 billion is a new record in the Western oil industry. Rockefeller, the great magnate of the turn of the century, could almost hide if you saw these profit piles. In order to avoid misunderstandings: there is nothing wrong with profit in a well-functioning market economy, as it can stimulate additional performance. But behind these giga-profits, there is no extra power, but instead it is a series of failed sanctions decisions to replace Russian energy supplies, and this can only be resolved at a higher price. That's why prices are skyrocketing, and that's why inflation is soaring. Several people have been asking why we don't talk about MOL in the last few days. Important question: MOL also showed a strong profit last year. And why is this not the same pasta as the previous examples? First of all, because MOL is a Hungarian company, it provides work for Hungarian people, and it also pays taxes here. And what is just as important is that if you build up an extra profit in an extraordinary situation, you will have to take your share of the common burden, you will have to pay a special tax, you will pay this, you will pay hundreds of billions of forints in the Hungarian budget. Among other things, it is possible to maintain the overhead premium, with an average value of HUF 181 thousand per month. This is also very necessary because Hungary's energy bill has increased by 4000 billion in recent years. 4,000 billion! This would be spent elsewhere, both for families and for the Hungarian state, for institution building, roads, hospitals or even for additional wage raising programmes. This is the price of the Brussels sanctions policy and brutal inflation. The sooner we achieve a change of direction in Brussels, the sooner we can get back to normal. Of course, left-wing parties do not talk about these aspects. They don't want to, they can't or they won't let them, it doesn't really matter. In any case, the government will endeavour to expand Hungary's economic space during this extraordinary period of war. Hungary has not been strengthened in the last ten or several years to throw these results away because of other people's mistakes. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Balázs Győrffy of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I apologize for my voice, but unfortunately, it's a circumstance that one can hardly control. At the same time, I thought it was important to bring the subject to the Parliament. It's not the first time we've done this, because it wasn't so long ago. What else is involved than the land tax that Péter Márki-Zay wants to put on the neck of Hungarian farmers in Hódmezővásárhely, and not surprisingly this has caused serious opposition in the farming community. [[10.20]] We see that the fallen Prime Minister candidate, after his dissatisfaction at national level, thought that he would create something permanent on the ground; unfortunately, at the expense of Hungarian farmers. It ignores the fact that the Hungarian countryside has been hit by a very historical drought in the last year, and we cannot forget the other difficulties of last year. But he finally forced his old dream through the assembly. Before the vote, the Chamber and Magos asked Members to reject this unworthy burden. We have seen that local right-wing representatives were partners in this, but the left-wing representatives voted in favour of this, just as they are, by the way, taking a national stand for sanctions; we could say that with Madách, the left can give nothing but what is the point. However, we did not leave the matter at that. The Chamber and Magos started collecting signatures, and thousands of farmers and thousands of Hungarian citizens signed this protest each day. Today, there are some 120,000 signatures behind the intention of taking down land taxes once and for all. We believe that land taxes cannot be introduced in Hódmezővásárhely or elsewhere in the country. We cannot allow farmers to decide without consulting farmers, whether it is the municipality or even the government of the country. It is not possible to drain a layer of society that supplies good quality food to the country as a whole. What can we say? There was someone to look at this technique, since the left can only suck out farmers. There's a tradition. We all remember most of us so obviously only from history books, that there was a time when farmers were called kulaks, and the farmer feared when they would come to sweep the attic. It's an old left-wing tradition to sabotage the farming community, and it doesn't seem like they're going to want to part with it. What do we see? We see that they do not have enough for millions of dollars from abroad, they also need farmers' money, their hard - produced goods. There are about four million landowners in Hungary, who are rightly concerned about the land tax issue and, of course, farmers are also concerned, as it will, of course, be their cost when incorporated into the rent. And what if others feel the need to do so, and more people think that farmers can be eviscerated? We have reason to believe that there is no trust in the left, because every time they came to power, the farming community has never come out of it well, it has never been thanked for it. On several occasions, however, the national government has demonstrated that farmers stand by the Hungarian countryside. After the shameful vote, I asked Mr.Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister here in Parliament, who confirmed that the government is in favour of farmers and protests against any form of land tax, especially in a year when prices have skyrocketed due to drought and penalty inflation. It is not necessary to pull another skin off the Hungarian economy, but to help them to ensure that they are able to fulfil their obligation to put good quality food on the Hungarian people's table. I would like to assure my fellow owners that Magos and the Chamber will continue to be firmly on the side of Hungarian farmers and also on the side of the Hungarian population; let us not be naive; of course, this will also affect consumers, as these costs will be integrated into consumer prices. This minework is outrageous, and unfortunately, we see that this bad example can be sticky, because after the beaver farm, we see an example of land taxing up to HUF 1000 per gold crown in some settlements. This draws a source out of the sector, it rings into the price of food, and then all of us lose our wallets to this measure. No wonder there is a growing need for society to end this once and for all. These 120,000 signatures, I think, are very powerful, we cannot allow the left to make Hungarian farmers impossible! All we have to do is join forces between the farming community and the government. Dear Deputy Minister, I would like to point out that the Hungarian countryside and the farming community are ready to join forces. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-07-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Balázs Győrffy, Deputy Minister, Mr Sándor Farkas, will give the answer to his speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I wish to begin with a firm and clear answer. The Agricultural Ministry considers it irresponsible and rejects the introduction of a land tax. I would like to thank my fellow Member for the fact that once the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and Magos have made a clear statement, we can now speak again in Parliament on this issue. In the last three years, during the two years of the epidemic, and now, during the difficulties caused by the war, the Hungarian economy has done everything in its power to bring the right quality, quantity of safe food to our table. It was a superhuman achievement and work that was done, and thanks to them, Hungarian agriculture has become a strategic sector, which is a responsibility for all of us. As a result of the energy crisis caused by failed sanctions in Brussels, inputs prices continue to rise, including the costs of agricultural production, which, unfortunately, also brings food growth. Fertilizer prices have increased by two and a half times, pesticide prices have increased by 22 percent, feed costs 47 percent more, and now more than 117 percent increase in electricity prices for livestock farms and gardening. It is clear that the imposition of a land tax would have a spillover effect; farmers would not be able to farm, pass on, and ultimately we consumers should pay for it, and inflation would increase in Hungarian. I find it very irresponsible that under these circumstances local farmers are being sabotaged and that new social tensions are being aroused. Left-wing politicians like to refer to the government's refusal to ask people's opinions on a particular issue. I respectfully ask which left-wing city councillor has requested the opinion of local farmers regarding the land tax. As far as I know, none of the mayors have bothered, but the Chamber has launched a petition on the land tax, which, as we have heard before, has already been signed by 120,000 farmers and more than 10,000 farmers in Csongrád-Csanád County. I cannot sufficiently stress the responsibility of city leaders on this issue. It is in the common interest of Hungarian farmers and Hungarian people to preserve the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture. We call on the leaders of the settlements not to sacrifice land taxes to farmers suffering from historical droughts. The government is also offering partnerships to municipalities in the current energy crisis. We strive to make the Hungarian economy and the budgets of the settlements crisis-resistant even in war conditions. In 2023 the municipalities received HUF 95 billion more funding and the total municipal support was HUF 969 billion. Local governments also benefit from the growth of the Hungarian economy. Business tax revenues increased by more than 44 percent between 2014 and 21; as in 2021, the government reimbursed last year's losses in local government business tax revenues; the settlements below 25 thousand were automatically paid for total losses; the larger cities were compensated for their tax capacity. In 2021, the government gave a total of HUF 23 billion to thirty-two municipalities over 25 thousand, while the opposition-led municipalities received HUF 11.4 billion, while the government-led municipalities received HUF 11.3 billion. Since 2023, all previous restrictions have been lifted, and the municipalities can collect the business tax on the basis of their own regulations. Finally, I would like to say that the government has always believed in the power of farmers who maintain the countryside. In feeling the united support of the farming community behind them, we are ready to establish in legislation that such a tax cannot be imposed in order to protect farmers, in order to ensure a satisfactory settlement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-07-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This concludes the speeches before the agenda. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to inform you that Congresswoman Judit Ráczné Földi has announced that the conflict of interest against her has been eliminated with effect from 7 March 2023. [[10.30]] Thus, the Parliament and the parliamentary committees may exercise their right to vote and to vote as of 8 March 2023, submit a motion from that date, and be entitled to remuneration from that date. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a resolution on the one-year anniversary of the Russian-Ukrainian war until closure. Máté Kocsis, István Simicskó, Lőrinc Nacsa, Barna Pál Zsigmond, Róbert Zsigó, Illés Boglárka, István Németh Szilárd and János Halász, as well as the submission submitted by the accession representatives H/3086. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, the Group leader of the Fidesz Group, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, On February 24, it was a year ago that the Russian-Ukrainian war broke out. There has been a bloody conflict in our neighbourhood for over a year, and we have lived for over a year in the immediate vicinity of a war that shakes not only the everyday lives of the two opposing parties, but also the whole of Europe. During the armed battles, hundreds of thousands of people have already lost their lives and more have suffered permanent physical or psychological injuries. Meanwhile, an unimaginable amount of value is destroyed, severe destruction of nature takes place, and buildings are made equal to the earth. We can only imagine the real extent of the damage, precisely measuring it under the current circumstances is almost impossible. And the worst of all, nowhere in the world can you see the process that would stop this war. The possibility of World War II is now within a reasonable distance. We here, directly in the neighbourhood of the war, are concerned about what is happening in Ukraine, as well as how Europe is drifting into the war step by step. We Hungarians also know from our historical experience that no one in this conflict can come out victorious, only and only losers, so we want the war to end as soon as possible, because the sufferings are reaching more and more people every day of war. Let us have no doubt: the longer peace moves, the greater the losses will be. We have said this many times, but if necessary, we will repeat it indefinitely: a ceasefire and peace talks are needed because life can only be saved by peace. Everyone must see that the path to peace is not to send weapons and soldiers to the Ukrainian soil. Remember, a year ago, we were just talking about sending helmets. Today we're over weapons and ammunition shipments, setting up missile systems, Leopard tanks are on their way to Ukraine, and the Western world is thinking about transporting fighter jets. At the moment, we are only a hair away from being on the agenda of sending European soldiers, and we are only a hair away from finding ourselves on the front, putting the Hungarians at risk. Notice that we are one step away from Europe drifting permanently and irreversibly into the war. Moreover, we must not forget that we have a special aspect, an aspect that no one else understands but ourselves. Others can't understand this, because other nations didn't have to experience the tragedy caused by the Trianon dictatorship to the Hungarians. Others do not know that Hungarians living abroad in the Carpathian Basin have never had an easy fate; they have always had to struggle bitterly to preserve their native language, culture and customs. Nor do others care that they now have to watch the morgues filled with the bodies of their relatives; and the women of Transcarpathia wait for their father, brothers, and sons from the front in vain. When we say that we want peace, we do not simply want to save people's lives, but we also fear for our fellow countrymen. Ladies and gentlemen, The West's sanctions have ruined the answer. He took the wrong step, and therefore Europe is living in minutes of drifting into war. We're in the minute after the last, the ice is thin, but it hasn't broken through yet. That is why I am convinced that our task here in Parliament's horseshoe is to say, however trivial it may seem, that the war will only end in peace, not with sanctions and not with Leopard tanks. We need a ceasefire and peace talks, because that is the most morally correct position, because there is nothing more important than human life. Economic issues are important, but there is nothing more important than human life. This Hungarian position has not been for nothing since the beginning of the war. It would be in the interest of the continent of Europe not to take measures to stop being tied up with shackles for which it loses. It must be seen that the sanctions promised did not bring Russia to its knees, yet the tenth one introduced by the European Union is the tenth! Neither is a sanctions package, nor is Europe financing the Russian war with increased energy prices. If the West finally realizes that it does not have to work on adopting new sanctions and concluding arms contracts, peace may come closer. At the same time, let us not underestimate the European Union or the United States' ability to assert their interests. If they wanted to work in peace, we'd be closer to him, but that's not what they're working on. The problem is that, unfortunately, they are working much more on deepening the crisis and sharpening the tension than is needed. And to our misfortune, as is usually the case, there are people at home who would bring us even more trouble and who would want to push us into the war, despite the fact that the Hungarians have clearly rejected all of this. However, I would like to state that we do not accept the pressure from them, we do not accept pressure from anyone, because it does not match the interests of Hungary and, by the way, the will of the Hungarian people. Speaking of political pressure: everyone who deals with public life feels that Hungary, the Hungarian government, and perhaps Hungarian politics are also under pressure. This pressure, as I said, is typically political, and political pressure requires political responses. The political response in this case is, we believe that, since the Hungarian Parliament is, after all, our main representative body, we must adopt a resolution in which we set clear cornerstones. Therefore, we are now submitting a resolution to the Parliament which is relevant and, ultimately, can be used in political debates. There are several important points to this statement, which I would like to briefly describe. First, we express our commitment to peace. Once again, we condemn Russia's military aggression and recognise Ukraine's right to self-defense. In our view, the economic and energy sanctions adopted in Brussels did not alleviate the war, so we are opposed to the plans in Brussels that would further broaden their scope. We call on the government to continue to help refugees from Ukraine in all possible ways, and to draw attention to the fact that the military conflict has a serious impact on the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia. We note that, as a committed member of NATO and the European Union, instead of arms shipments and further sanctions, we need early peace talks. Finally, we call on the Hungarian public actors in Hungary to refrain from political actions and speeches that could lead to Hungary's drift into war. Dear Parliament, The last point is also important because some have already made it clear that they will not support this pro-peace declaration. It's called provocation, and it's explained with all sorts of saying reasons why they won't vote for it. Of course, we're used to not counting on everyone in trouble. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Never to Fidesz!]] This was the case in the migration crisis, as was the case with the corona virus epidemic, and so was the case in the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian war, as was the case with the sanctions, and probably will be now. We would think that if you were Hungarian, you could only want one, but some people don't think so. The reasons, even if they don't say it openly, we know it. They're pro-war, but we're pro-peace. This is probably the irresolvable opposite, for which this proposal will not enjoy unanimity. [[10.40]] Dear fellow Members, In this war, we don't root for anyone. Not to anyone, because this war can't have a winner. The further battle we believe will not bring victory and peace, but, as I said, the danger of the world war, and this must be avoided far away. That is why we believe it would be irresponsible to say that only Russia or Ukraine can win this war. You don't have to go into this argument. Let us not forget that it is in the interests of the pro-wars to somehow convince the pro-peaceers of arms transfers and to put them at risk of drifting into war. No one can oblige us to put the Hungarian interest in second place, so we continue to categorically reject this! Dear fellow Members, To reject the war provocations, I now ask the sober-thinking representatives of Hungarian public life to record together: Hungary remains pro-peace and intends to stay out of the Russian-Ukrainian war in the future. The only way to save lives is through an immediate ceasefire and forced peace talks. Please support the pro-peace declaration. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-07-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I now ask Mr Péter Sztáray, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Péter András Sztáray: Yes.]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Today's discussion and debate is very timely, as February 24, 2022, this date has also changed the transatlantic and European security situation. We are talking about a watershed, and the Euroatlantic region has been fundamentally shaken by the Russian-Ukrainian war, which has a significant and long-term impact not only on the regional but also on the global security architecture. The EU and transatlantic unity has been strongly strengthened and NATO and collective protection are once again at the forefront. Maintaining strong and credible collective protection and deterrence and the development of military capabilities in the short and medium term has become increasingly a priority for many countries, especially for countries on the eastern wing of NATO, including Hungary. Our position has been consistent since the Russian-Ukrainian war broke out. We condemn Russia's military aggression against Ukraine and systematic attacks on civil and critical infrastructure in Ukraine and stand for Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. However, Hungary must stay out of this conflict. We do not deliver deadly means to Ukraine and we do not authorize direct weapons transit through our territory. Saving people's lives is the most important thing now, so we call for peace. After the one-year anniversary of the war, peace is not only timely but also necessary. It's time for war rhetoric to be replaced by peace rhetoric. 2022 was a year of war, but we hope that 2023 will be a year of peace and reconstruction. The continuing transport of deadly weapons for Ukraine will not facilitate neither the ceasefire agreement nor the peaceful settlement. The international community must act in the interests of peace and avoid any action that promotes the prolonged or escalation of war. As soon as we call for a deescalation and we support all efforts to engage in a meaningful dialogue between the parties. The war in Ukraine has a significant impact on both Hungary and the international community and is causing waves at global level. Support for global supply chains has also become difficult and food and energy prices have increased. This increases inflation, food uncertainty, economic downturn and also hinders economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. The humanitarian consequences are also enormous. Europe has been facing the biggest humanitarian crisis since the Second World War, which puts an enormous burden on governments and societies all over the continent. Hungary has consistently supported and will continue to support decisions and efforts on the Ukrainian war. In this context, we supported Ukraine's EU candidate status and the proposal for two support measures for the European peace framework. At the same time, we could not support the establishment of an EU mission in Ukraine, as this will lead to further escalation rather than a swift settlement, so our country stayed constructively when the mission was set up. [[Gergely Harvesto: With the courage to despise death!]] At the same time, remembering the new Ukrainian national minority law and the discriminatory steps that have been taken in recent times against Hungary, it is important to point out that the road to EU membership is long and that Ukraine will need European political decisions that will not take place without Hungary. In the words of Minister Péter Szijjártó: the more rights they lose from the Hungarian national community, the longer they drag on giving back the national community rights that once existed, the harder it will be for Hungary to make decisions that support Ukraine, while at the same time demanding sacrifice from us. As a result, we welcomed the unanimous decision of the Monitoring Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the Hungarian-Romanian initiative that the Venice Commission should draw up an opinion on the law on national minorities in Ukraine. Hungary is actively involved and will continue to participate in all efforts to strengthen NATO's deterrent and defence position on the east wing. We are interested in ensuring NATO stays out of this conflict, because otherwise there would be unforeseen consequences. However, we are reassured that the Alliance shares this approach, and the decisions taken so far clearly point in the direction that NATO does not want to be part of the conflict. As regards Ukraine's NATO membership, the Alliance decided at the 2008 Bucharest summit that Ukraine and Georgia could be a member of NATO. However, speculation on the prospects for political relations between NATO and Ukraine during the war may distract attention from ongoing efforts to support Ukraine. Hungary stands by NATO's open door policy, but the emphasis must be placed on practical support. Any decision on NATO membership is made between the 30 allied states and the aspirant countries wishing to join the alliance, with no third country having a say in this, but all 30 countries must support the accession. However, this is not up to date, as there are war conditions in Ukraine. Dear House, Hungarian society does not want war, so Hungary gives Ukraine all the help that promotes peace and alleviates the effects of the humanitarian disaster. In response to the crisis in Ukraine, Hungary launched one of its largest humanitarian aid actions. The government seeks to improve the situation of people living in Ukraine with significant resources and regular supplies of aid. In addition to the financial support for charitable organisations, Hungary provided medical supplies and equipment, food aid, hygienic products and fuel to Ukraine. In addition, Hungary continues to provide free health care, train tickets, learning opportunities for refugees and their children in Ukraine. Hungary's border crossing points continue to operate at full capacity, we let everyone who comes from the conflict zone in. Since February 24, last year, more than four and a half million people have come to Hungary from Ukraine, of which more than one million have fled from the war. Our country also promotes the activities of humanitarian aid organisations in Ukraine and Ukraine through logistical support and the maintenance of a humanitarian corridor. Hungary is also ready to play an active role in the post-war reconstruction of Ukraine. I would like to point out that Hungary has offered its assistance to facilitate the Ukrainian grain trade. The extension of the Black Sea cereal initiative between Ukraine, Russia, Turkey and the United Nations in March will be critical for food security and the mitigation of the global food crisis. [[10.50]] It also finances the transport of 10,000 tonnes of grain from our country to Africa, and it is in our interest to prevent the further escalation of the energy crisis. Dear House, The Hungarian Government hopes that the parties concerned will return to the negotiating table and resolve the conflict with diplomatic means in a short time. Hungary, in cooperation with its allies, is in favour of peace, because only a stable region can give every country the opportunity to develop peacefully. The current resolution of the Parliament is based on last year's resolution, which set the strategic direction. The current decision builds on this, sets out what needs to be done and interprets the situation, and evaluates what has happened so far. The Government agrees with the content of the proposal for a decision, and there are several reasons for this. On the one hand, because the proposal for a resolution strengthens our firm commitment to peace, condemns aggression and recognises Ukraine's right to self-defence, but at the same time draws attention to the fact that sanctions do not reach their goal and only create economic, inflation, energy and food supply problems, especially on the European continent. The decision proposal also makes it clear that Hungary cannot be the main burdener, highlights the difficult situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians, and states that there is a need for immediate peace talks instead of further sanctions and arms shipments, in line with the expectations of Hungarian society. By the way, Hungarian society's expectations appeared well during last year's parliamentary elections and then during the sanction consultation. It is necessary to prevent hundreds of thousands more dying and destroy the entire Ukrainian infrastructure. Dear House, There is only one way to achieve this: an immediate ceasefire and meaningful peace talks. The government is ready to give us all the help we can, because we are on the side of peace, and we therefore support the adoption of the pro-peace resolution proposal. As the resolution is both a strengthening of the government's activities to date and guidance for the future, which we take very seriously, we therefore support the adoption of this pro-peace proposal by the Parliament as much as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. It will be possible to speak on a case-by-case basis after the keynote speeches, before the two-minute speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Today, Russia launched a war against Ukraine a year ago, violating the most fundamental principles of international law and endangering the international order based on rules. We condemn Russia's aggression without reservation, and we continue to support Ukraine in words and actions. Today, there is a war mood in Europe, and in such a situation, there is a great responsibility for all European decision-makers. The war next door can easily become a real European war if the peace camp does not defeat the pro-war forces. We Hungarian Members of Parliament also have a responsibility, which is what the pro-peace resolution before us is about. The resolution summarises what we think today, on the one-year anniversary of the Russian-Ukrainian war, about the war: First of all, we are pro-peace, we condemn Russian aggression, we stand by Ukraine. Secondly, we note that sanctions do not work, so we do not see them as suitable to defeat Russia, and that the whole of Europe, European families and the economy seem to be groaning at the burden of sanctions, and that the continent has suffered from long-awaited war inflation. Sanctions weaken the European economy and bring European people into poverty so that we can help Ukraine less. Thirdly, the Hungarian nation has joined forces to help Ukrainian refugees. The government is carrying out Hungary's largest humanitarian action with the participation of churches, municipalities, civilians and Hungarian families. It is a pleasure that the assistance is accompanied by a long-awaited national agreement. Fourthly, as a member of NATO and the European Union, we are working for peace, asking our allies to focus on peace negotiations instead of arms transfers. Fifthly, Hungary stands up for Transcarpathian Hungarians, and we approach the war through their fate. Dear House, Now allow me to explain our position in detail. First of all: peace is in the Hungarian interest, war is not in the Hungarian interest: while there was peace, there was no inflation in Europe, and energy prices have been low since there was war and sanctions, inflation and energy prices have skyrocketed. Perhaps that would be enough to support our position, but allow my left-wing colleagues, who often do not recognize Hungarian interests, to make further arguments for peace: war, Russian aggression destroyed Ukraine, hundreds and hundreds dying every day, tens of thousands leaving their homeland, and enormous damage to the infrastructure, psychological, physical and environmental damage is incomprehensible. Just because we're on peace's side doesn't mean we're Putin's. The Russian Empire's brutal attack on Ukraine has crossed all borders, but the war has a history. These are also worth taking into account, not accepting, but recording the circumstances that led to aggression. Russia gradually strengthened after the break-up of the Soviet Union and expressed its security needs vis-à-vis NATO, a security doctrine that marked Russia's Ukraine policy. In 2014, since the annexation of Crimea, there have been virtually armed fighting in eastern Ukraine, the provinces of Luhansk and Donetsk, where Russian-friendly separatist movements fought against Ukrainian forces. If the Minsk agreements on the European, German and French initiatives that tried to stop the fight had been respected by the parties and had been a political and military force to enforce them, there would have been no war today. Arming Ukraine, the attacks on the Russian community led to a situation where the Russian Empire launched an attack and the brutal war continues today. The Russians are like this: a great power with a security strategy that prioritises its own interests, and that we want them to retire, they do not retreat. We didn't want them to march in 1848 and the last time in 1956, but they did. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Is that okay? The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear fellow Members, Allow me one more personal experience of peace. Last week, I was in The Hague, at the Palace of Peace, at a meeting of the Council of Europe's standing committee. The Palace of Peace is one of the headquarters of the International Court of Justice of the United Nations, financed by Andrew Carnegie, regarded as a temple of peace in world politics, and its mission is to serve world peace. In many cases, the palace has provided opportunities for peace talks. Over 75 years ago, delegates from nearly 20 European countries decided on new forms of European cooperation, the Council of Europe was born, and now almost all European countries are members of the organisation. At the end of the Second World War, after the horrors, there was a lasting peace with cooperation and dialogue; that wisdom would still be needed today. As the dreamer of the palace, American diplomat Andrew Dickson White said, "This would be a kind of sacred place that thinking people would respect all over the world, and in which, in the event of war between any two countries, people's minds would turn natural and normal. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The desire for peace was at the same time as humankind and was able to end terrible wars, which is still the task. We urge a diplomatic solution: instead of a cult of violence, we call for a cult of wisdom, we call for a ceasefire, peace talks; this is our Hungarian interest, a European, Ukrainian and ultimately global interest. We need a peace that guarantees the sovereignty of Ukraine, as a European Ukraine capable of preserving its democratic, sovereign and territorial integrity is also an elementary Hungarian interest. Dear House, Second, I'd like to talk about sanctions. The declared purpose of sanctions is to bring an opponent to his knees who would otherwise not be possible or too risky. In theory, this method can work when faced with an opponent who is more dependent on the outside world than we are dependent on the country. There is no need for extra preparedness or knowledge that in the latter case the sanctioning policy is ineffective or even requires greater sacrifices from the sanctioner than the one to be punished. It has become clear today that Brussels bureaucracy has created and lives in a reality entirely parallel to reality. [[11.00]] The sanctions policy strongly contradicts and confronts the real needs of EU countries and citizens. It is now clear that the unprecedented increase and volatility of energy prices, the resulting inflation and economic recession are linked not only to war but also to the introduction of sanctions and often to irresponsible, unthinkable declarations of their introduction. Meanwhile, the Russians have not been able to discourage at all the implementation of their plans for Ukraine. Moreover, despite the less gas sold to Europe, due to the high gas prices, Gazprom's revenues reached a historic peak. While the EU deals with the percentage of consumption to be reduced, the maximum temperature allowed to heat the institutions and homes and the penalties imposed on those who break the rules, Russia sells the released quantity to China, India and other countries with almost unlimited capacity to absorb. Through sanctions, the EU has taken on a situation where it is no longer its own. It is clear that the application of sanctions policy is not in Europe's interest, because it also loses the remaining international capacity. Hungary cannot afford to risk everything we have achieved in the last decade in a short-sighted way, driven by confused ideologies and false good manners. We have experienced in our own skin that here in the Carpathian Basin, where worlds and cultures meet, we should not gamble, because we are always the losers of that. It is in our interest that these worlds and cultures do not fight, but cooperate with each other. This requires peace and the maintenance of the atmosphere of dialogue. Dear House, Third, a few words about Hungarian help and engagement. The number of people fleeing from fighting and destruction is difficult to estimate, but can be measured in ten million people, some 1.5 million of them crossed the border between Hungary and Ukraine. In response to the challenge, we launched the greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history, which is taking place today. Within this framework, state and municipal institutions as well as church and civil society organisations joined forces to help refugees in their capacity. We have established several transit accommodations and relief points across the country, and we are constantly taking care of children's school and kindergarten placements. During the summer, we have provided camping opportunities for hundreds of children and help those who live temporarily in Hungary to earn income. We support the construction of schools and hospitals in the territory of Ukraine in Bucsa. As a relief shipment, we sent large quantities of food, industrial goods, bandages and pharmaceutical packages, we supply wounded Ukrainian soldiers in Hungarian hospitals, and we try to provide all the humanitarian assistance we have in Ukraine. We also launched several relief shipments to the neighbouring Transcarpathia, which will also help the large number of refugees in the country who are staying there, besides Hungarians and Ukrainians. Dear House, As the fourth main idea, the declaration clearly supports the NATO membership of Hungary. As Head of the Hungarian Parliamentary Delegation on NATO, allow me a few thoughts. NATO is an organisation on the ground of collective protection, the main task of which is to deter and protect NATO members. At the same time, it is clear that NATO has never faced such a critical situation in its 74-year history and is facing its greatest challenge. And although NATO is not a party to the war, it is also a lion's share in maintaining federal unity, fighting Russia, supporting Ukraine and fine-tuning the various sanction regimes in the European Union. Russia is an empire, a modern-day great power, the largest country in the world, which can be regarded as almost inexhaustible from natural resources and resources. In addition, the second largest nuclear weapons arsenal and a serious army. This is also the reason why direct military intervention is not an option for Russia. I believe it is important that, despite the war, NATO maintains its so-called 360-degree security approach to all the challenges, including threats to the Alliance from the south, such as terrorism, migration and climate change. Continue to widen and deepen NATO partnerships and increase defence spending. The challenge presented by China must be addressed, NATO-EU cooperation strengthened and a response to the change in the strategic environment. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Dear House, As a fifth subject, we cannot even sweep under the carpet that in recent years Ukraine has taken a number of measures that have had a negative impact on minorities, including Transcarpathian Hungarians. We expect Ukraine to abandon these measures and ensure the rights of minorities to use their mother tongue, education and other rights, but we have been able to return to these questions before the end of the war. In this spirit, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán supported Ukraine's accession to the European Union in the European Council on behalf of the Hungarian Government, and urged that negotiations be launched as soon as possible to promote the creation of the conditions for effective accession. We hope that Ukraine will be able to meet these conditions as soon as possible and join the European community. But the Ukrainian attitude to bring in a new minority window law, which does not actually grant minorities any rights, does not point towards accession. We condemn aggression, give a helping hand to those in need, promote the protection of national minorities and the early arrival of peace. Finally, Honourable House, we are not Ukrainian or Russian protagonists, we are on the side of common sense and Hungarian national interest. No one in Hungary can seriously believe that this war can do us any good. If we were to deliver weapons to Ukraine, as the dollar left demands of us, and as they would do if they were in power, we would put our fellow nations in Transcarpathia at even greater risk. Hundreds of enlisted Hungarian men still die meaningless deaths on the front line. Many fled their homeland from war and enlistment, and they do not know when to return home to their families. The fate of those left behind, especially women, children, and old people, is not easy. Their supporters, husbands, fathers, children are left without children, and this is how they face the agony of war, uncertainty, lack of economy, blackouts, and often hostile majority sentiments. So, ladies and gentlemen, finally, I can only say once again that there should be peace. The only way to save lives is by ceasefire and immediate peace talks. I ask you to support the pro-peace resolution proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2023-03-07-41	Dear House, We said it yesterday, and we say it today: we agree that we want peace in Ukraine. At the same time, we know to you that there is only one basic condition for lasting and just peace, that Russia should abandon aggression and exit the occupied Ukrainian territories. Not only do we think so, but so does the UN General Assembly, whose resolution is exactly the same, honourable Members. Most of the countries in the world, where Péter Szijjártó was a national and which you are so happy to refer to, feel the same way. He thinks there will be peace, there will be peace when the Russian aggression is over. Turns out you can't do that. Yesterday, I suggested that if you have such a great friendship with Moscow and Russian leaders, then take care of this. Yesterday, they said they couldn't handle this. Then from now on, we have no choice but to rely on our allies. Hungary's security today is guaranteed by our NATO membership and our membership of the European Union. This is the Hungarian national interest. When we say that we should stand up for our allies, we say that we should stand up for the Hungarian national interest, the security of Hungary. When you weaken our allies, weaken cooperation, weaken Hungary's federal system, you threaten Hungary's security and act contrary to national interests. I have said once again, the shameful charade that you will see in the context of Finnish and Swedish membership, whatever you will see in Stockholm and Helsinki, where you have now traveled to study what is in Sweden and Finland; well, I would like to congratulate you on it, it will certainly be a very important journey, well, the fact is that the delay or at least no support for the NATO membership of Sweden and Finland, the maintenance of doubts about this, the whole shameful charade that was first confirmed by the social debate and then by the unexpected internal conscience doubts of the Fidesz fraction, is nothing more about serving Russian interests. [[11.10]] The Hungarian national interest today is not related to Russia, the Hungarian national interest today is linked to NATO and the European Community. He showed you well what you mean by this and what you mean by the Hungarian national interest, the pre-sentence of my honourable fellow Member, who allegedly stood up for Ukraine by repeating the dirtiest lies of Russian propaganda about the causes of the war; who stood up for Ukraine in the view that even the attacks on Hungary in 1849 and 1956 were justified and justified. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Shame!]] [[Zsolt Gréczy: Shame!]] This is an amazing, amazing fellow Member, how is it (Zsolt Gréczy: Shame!) The one who thinks about it that way. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. István Hollik: You're lying!]] And some believe that the interests of the Transcarpathian Hungarians are in the interest of the Hungarians, is it in the Hungarian interest to have an otherwise bad relationship with Ukraine, to attack Ukraine? Isn't it the Hungarian interest, not the interest of the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, to have a good relationship between Hungary and Ukraine, so that we can act effectively in the interests of Hungarian citizens living in Ukraine? And what is more, my honourable fellow Member, is that you call the death of those people, of whom a good part voluntarily went to the front, meaningless, I think that this is a kind of immorality that even political interests cannot justify. They talk about sanctions. But, fellow Members, sanctions in the European Union can be adopted by consensus and consensus. The Hungarian government gave its consent to the sanctions, the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth and the tenth. Each sanction was supported by the Hungarian Government, otherwise it would not have been possible to enter into force. The fact is, fellow Members, that what they say about the effects of sanctions is not true. You say that there are high energy prices because there are sanctions. When did you fellow Members introduce the gas price cap? You know, their little election promise, which, of course, was only valid in the year of the election. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What are you talking about?! You demanded that we take it back.]] When was the gas price cap introduced? On 15 November 2021. There was no war then, and there was no penalty. Ladies and gentlemen, They say there's war inflation. Well, it is very strange war inflation, which only causes 25 percent inflation in Hungary, in Poland, Romania, not to mention the other Member States of the European Union, which causes much lower inflation. [[István Hollik: Three times the number!]] In addition, Hungarian inflation continued to increase in January [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Is it inflating? It's inflating!]] while decreasing everywhere in Europe. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál and Nacsa Lőrinc intervene.]] Ladies and gentlemen, This is your inflation, this is inflation in Orbán, it has nothing to do with sanctions, or it has nothing to do with sanctions. The fact is that it is not sanctioned and not war inflation; what is in Hungary is inflation in Orbán. And while we are at it, it is worth converting to the fact that, fellow Members, instead of adopting this proposal for a resolution, which I say once again has one real political purpose: support for the position in Putin and questioning, weakening Hungary's membership of the European Union and NATO, preparing for a possible Hungarian exit from the European Union, supporting its mood, instead we should be dealing with the dangers that really threaten Hungarian citizens. Because there is no question that inflation in Orbán is indeed a threat to the Hungarian governments. [[Sic!]] The drastic increase in inflation, which is two and a half times higher than the European average, is indeed a threat. But that is why we suggested that this is the seven-point draft political statement of the shadow government, which we intend to present to the Parliament, only yesterday you voted against to be on the agenda, you voted against yesterday to deal with people's real problems here in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] This is why this draft decision proposes that we deal with how to break down inflation in Orbán; for example, by reducing VAT on basic foods and energy sources by creating a credible economic policy, such as the country's real budget, something that will be submitted and then not rewritten a thousand times in a regulation. And, yes, we also suggested that, because this is also the real problem of people who have to pay the bill and receive a check monthly, for example in my constituency, Kőbány and Kispesten, what we can do to combat your brutal increase in gas prices to seven times the price, which is still not decreasing; it is referred to the world market price, but it is not reduced now, by the way, when the price on the world market is falling. We'd like to know, by the way, if it's Russians and energy prices and sanctions, let them know on what terms they're getting gas from the Russians. Let's see who's looking for this gas contract, the Russians are looking for it, or are you? Because one thing is certain: your gas contract is very, very expensive for Hungarian citizens. Our second proposal is, therefore, to publish these contracts, to increase the amount of gas and electricity that can be used at a reduced rate, to reduce the price of firewood and to provide support for the insulation of dwellings and for the transition to renewable energy. Thirdly, we also know who are the biggest losers of the brutal increase. I will tell you, fellow Members, our retired countrymen, who receive a certain 15% increase only in terms of your low inflation rate, while inflation was already 25 percent in January, but pensioners do not feel this, because pensioners consume a significant amount of food and energy, to a much greater extent than ordinary citizens. And the pensioner who goes into the ABC in Stone and sees that the price of bread is 80 percent, the price of eggs is 80 percent, the price of cheese has increased by 50 percent in one year, it says to your 15 percent pension increase that it's a shame, and so am I. Let's finally calculate fairly how much loss you've caused the pensioners, and make up for this loss, at least for the under-average pensioners with a HUF 100,000 payment! Fourthly, after 12 years of the Orbán government, Hungarian wages became the driving force of the European Union. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The fact is that a worker working in Kispesten earns less than an Austrian or German worker for his own work, for the same decent work, but now he earns much less than a Polish, Slovak or Romanian worker. That is why we say that it would be a fundamental task of the government, and this Parliament, to deal with wages, wage catch-up, when it will finally be a European wage for Hungarian workers; the first important step would be the introduction of the European minimum wage system as early as possible. Fifthly, the Hungarians' lives are being threatened by the government even when they invest in polluting investments on their necks without coordination and without proper impact assessments. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] dumps battery factories [[Intercom from the ruling parties: Pro-Peace Declaration, talk about it!]] make it so... Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about what is important to the electorate, even if you do not like it. [[István Hollik: Is peace not important?]] Ladies and gentlemen, So the thing is... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] The situation is, therefore, we demand and want and recommend that we deal with how to prevent these types of harmful [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] investments that are economically and environmentally unsustainable. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Sixthly, the Hungarian electorate is also threatened by losing the resources that the European Union provides and which would allow us to make Hungary a better, more livable European country. We therefore also propose that we address when we will finally restore the rule of law; when we will put an end to corruption; when we will actually do something in substance instead of your bullshit in order for Hungary to meet the European Union's own expectations; when we will finally join the European Public Prosecutor's Office in order to remove from Hungary the one who is caught in corruption and not be decorated. That is what we want, and that is what we want, because that is what is important for Hungarian citizens. Finally, Hungary's development, peace and security are guaranteed by EU and NATO membership. Therefore, we would like the Parliament to say that they are important to us, and whoever threatens to do so is acting against the interests of the Hungarian nation. This is the seven-point resolution proposal proposed by the shadow government. [[Nacsa Lárinc: And where is Klara Dobrev?!]] You are not willing to talk about this, and you are not willing to debate it here in Parliament. But we're gonna bring him here, and we're gonna tell him in Parliament even if you don't like it. These are the real problems of Hungarian citizens, which we should solve, and these are the problems that you believe can be swept under the carpet and made disappear by political magic. But this is not the case, my fellow Members, the Hungarian citizens will sooner or later give an opinion on these issues. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[11.20]]
u2023-03-07-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, Head of the Group, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Parliament is discussing an important agenda here today, and I listened with great attention and interest to the speakers before me. But let's stop for a moment. However, there is a party and faction who does not take part in the adoption, discussion, negotiation of the pro-peace declaration. You can argue about that, it's been revealed in the past few minutes, but some people haven't shown up. However, the voters have authorized the Members of Parliament to become Members of Parliament, they have started on your team, have an important ally, and look at this, looking at the list of speakers that have been registered in advance, none of them are here. So how pro-party they are, we can rightly ask that question. I think that one of the most important issues for Hungarian society today is the question of peace, when there will be peace. Obviously, this war has a number of other effects, economic impact, sanctioning inflation, many, many things, it is also of interest to people, but I think it is important that we record in the Parliament's minutes that there is a party, an organisation called Momentum, and it is not here in Parliament, it does not participate in the debate, it does not express its position on peace. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond to one or two of my fellow Member Gergely Arató's speeches. Yesterday, too, the expression "fair peace" was said. The combination of these two words is quite peculiar and interesting, since we have not seen much of a just peace throughout history. We've seen a fair war, in general, which is a war to defend the country, it's considered fair, and the attacker is aggressor, aggressive. So it would be nice to have such a thing, but in the known history of mankind, we have not seen very much just peace. Peace is usually born with some kind of compromise, so it is still acceptable to the parties in some way, or it will end a total war with a total victory, and it usually ends with a peace dictatorship by asserting dominance. Gergely Arató also said that Hungary's security is guaranteed by the European Union and NATO. Allow me, Congressman, to inform you that this would be a good thing, but it is not a question, NATO is a defence-military alliance, indeed an important security guarantee for Hungary. The European Union does not have the ability to defend itself. [[Gergely Arató: Security is not just a military issue!]] In the past 20-30 years, we have seen this constantly as a European defence identity, a European common army, nothing, virtually zero, no. So the European Union is not a defence organisation, especially not a military organisation, but primarily an organisation of economic cooperation. We will analyse this subject daily, and we can obviously analyse and analyse in the future the root causes of how we got here, but most importantly, we must now strive to stand up for peace and to have a ceasefire as soon as possible, peace talks as possible, because there is a way and a way to go through this. This is what the parliamentary resolution proposal tabled with Máté Kocsis and a number of my fellow Members is about, and we would like to stand for peace, and we would like the Hungarian Parliament to be able to express its position unanimously and express its desire for peace and this expectation. However, I quoted yesterday and this expresses everything from István Fekete, our excellent writer, a few sentences. There's no war won or lost, there's only war! Destroying, killing, inhumane! Wars did not solve any problems, but they always sowed the seed of the next. Wars aren't started by a few people, but they don't fight and they don't die. Simple people kill each other, they fall into a pit of foreign land, and their homes are destroyed. They're the tools, and they're the victims. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ladies and gentlemen, I think István Fekete wrote everything in these few sentences. The people of Ukraine are the victims, we sympathize with them, that's not a question. The pro-peace declaration also expresses this compassion. We also help Ukrainians, Ruthenians, Hungarians and everyone who flee from the war. I think it's a fair and fair government position. Ladies and gentlemen, This war has been going on for over a year. Obviously, if we interpret this differently, we have entered the period of hybrid warfare, fourth generation warfare, network-based warfare, information warfare, many, many expressions. This has started long before, because will cancer, influence, intervention in the internal affairs of certain countries, political restructurings, change of power, internal chaos, we already have historical experience of these over the past decades, because as technology, technology evolves, as people use smart tools, in this way, there can certainly have an impact on a country of destination by external forces, whether public or non-state actors. In this case, we have also seen examples of this. Technically, I have to say that there are people who have done a lot to start this war, and there are those who are still doing what they can to keep the war going. There have always been war hawks in war conflicts, who, for some reason, either in financial, political, economic interest, have strongly encouraged and encouraged war scenes, because that was their political interest. We also have a number of examples of violence and the emergence of total wars. We would like to do so with this parliamentary resolution for peace. Maybe if I draw that parallel when I say that the Defense Act is 1. § (1) states that the protection of the country is a national matter, it is a legal item. If we don't do it, it won't be. I could give you an example of sports. Iuvenalis is often quoted as a healthy soul. Once again, Iuvenalis wrote that we must work to pray for a healthy soul to dwell in the body. Peace is like that. We must also work for peace, we must do a great deal, even with such a small, seemingly insignificant and acceptable parliamentary decision. This is a declaration of intent, a helpful declaration that the Hungarian Parliament also stands up for peace, so that there will be peace between the Russians and the Ukrainians as soon as possible. That's right. Analyzing the war, we see that about 18 percent of Ukraine is occupied by the Russian army. This is a serious loss for Ukraine. Let us not talk about human lives, for there were more than 100,000 dead, so there is an incredible destruction on the front sections. We also see that there are a number of countries on the western side, if calculated correctly, from about 30 to 35 countries arriving with arms and ammunition. Now, more requests have been received for fighter planes, tanks, several types, 50 different types of fighting equipment. Putting them into this system is not an easy task. Obviously, the Ukrainians are heroic. Indeed, the Russian army, the Russian military industry, has much more capacity, as the countries are turning into war economies here during a war period. It is clear that the Russians are superior to the artillery on the front. It can be seen that in Bahmut's area there is an ever closer ring around the city, but the front section is 850 kilometers away, and there is a lot of a standing war going on. In some places there is intensity and military operations, and obviously Ukrainians are preparing for an offensive, but it seems that the Russians are also preparing for a spring offensive, at least the speeding up of weapon production and the delivery of Western equipment. Let me tell you professionally, though, that you can get roughly 300 tanks in the first place. These are Leopard 2A4 types, German make, Abramsek, Challanger 2 trucks, apparently these promises were made by the Western countries to the Ukrainian army. This is a great help, but you should know, let's say, these 300 tanks are about enough to launch an offensive on a 30-mile front section, and the entire front section is 850 kilometers. So to hope for a miracle, I don't think it's possible. But we don't think that's the answer, it's just gonna drag the war out. In any case, there should be a change in the US's foreign policy, as they have the opportunity, the word and the weight of the world's number one power to sit down at the negotiating table, to have a ceasefire before it. By the way, the Yugoslav war shows well: the Yugoslav war lasted ten years, it is true that for the Slovenians it was only 10 days, but then it went on. [[11.30]] There, too, was the Dayton peace treaty, so to speak, not the just peace, but at least the serenity of arms, and some kind of compromise agreement which was accepted by the parties, the South Slavic parties. But look at the case in Kosovo. To this day, this part of the Balkans has not been resolved with solace. So talking about justice when you draw boundaries is very, very difficult. We Hungarians know exactly how, at the end of the First World War, the Antente powers held this to be just, and with the arrogance and declaration of the winning powers, we can see this peace as a peace dictate. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important for the Parliament to express its commitment to peace in this resolution. It is important to condemn Russia's military aggression and to recognise Ukraine's right to self-defense. The parliamentary decision is obviously about the negative, further negative effects of the war, its economic effects, the scope of energy sanctions and much more, humanitarian aid and obviously the standing up for Transcarpathian Hungarians. It is also important to say this yesterday that the situation in this region is extremely complex and complicated, since there are no sharp boundaries between the two peoples, the two brothers and sisters. I always say that sister wars are the saddest, because it would be simple to read only the testimony of the Old Testament, Cain and Abel, and then there would be no sibling wars, but there would always be people and politicians who can even tease the brothers and sisters. That's why this case is sad. In addition, they are brothers in their faith, as they are orthodox, pravoslavic peoples, with an enormous number of mixed marriages, with an extremely complicated sense of identity. Therefore, when we look at the numbers and say that 17-18 million people, Ukrainian citizens, fled the war from Ukraine, but then we look at how many people came west and how many people went east and we see about 6 million people going to Russia. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] So the Russian identities, who lived in that region, are a creed, this is very difficult to separate, because they lived together not only in the Soviet Union, but before that. The Slavs, like the ancestors of the Hungarians, lived in a tribal covenant at the beginning; 15 tribes formed the alliance of the Slavs, while the Hungarians were 7. So, over the course of historical times, the various Slavic peoples have managed to acquire a vast area, and obviously, here, to do justice for us, and to tell us who is right, and to root for one of them... We have to cheer for peace, and we're sad to see there's a war on. We're totally not interested in this. This statement clearly and clearly expresses our stand for peace. It's the only way. I trust that once the moods have calmed down, I often quote Lao-cé, he said that calm is the control of movement, because I think it's very important that we remain calm and calm. By the way, in a very difficult situation, when a specific Cyrillic-letter missile hit the territory of Poland, everyone was heartbroken there, and we thought that Article 5 of the Washington Treaty, Article 5 was here, because they claimed that a Russian missile had crashed, and if a NATO member country was attacked, then Article 5 could come into force, it should be considered an attack on all NATO member countries. But fortunately, thanks to God, this peace of mind has remained on the part of the Polish political leadership as well as on the part of the American political leadership, and it has not come into effect. If this was a provocation, it wasn't, it was an accident, but there's been provocation, and we know how dangerous these things are in such a world political situation; let's just think about the bombing of Košice. So don't be so provocative. I would also like to draw the attention of the parties to calmness and sobriety. I know it's very difficult to come back from this spiral of violence, it's very difficult to take back the hateful, fighting spirit that emerges in a war, but sooner or later, these brakes have to be put into this system, and we have to fight for peace. So I'm asking you to support the pro-peace declaration. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Molnár, the MSZMP... sorry! [[Defiance.]] Please understand, I'm sorry. Freudian slip. ... the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2023-03-07-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, we have gone beyond this Freudian metaphor. When we are discussing this statement, it is very important that we focus on the issues that are at the heart of it. We therefore consider it important to talk about three issues: what is the purpose of this declaration; secondly, what is its content; and thirdly, there is an alternative to this statement. Let us look at its purpose, because this is perhaps the best place to see what this political discourse, disguised as a debate, is about, is happening here in Parliament. When Máté Kocsis announced on Fidesz-KDNP that they were preparing for a declaration of peace, we received this news with mixed doubts with anticipation, and our suspicions were confirmed that this declaration was essentially only partially, and I have to say in a small part, about peace. Of course, this is correct, so we will mention this in its content, that the points that are really about peace would be eligible. But given that this entire statement has been poured into a joint bug, such a statement cannot be supported in four-eighths or in one-two parts [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's basically the same thing, but it's either you can vote or you can't. From this point of view, I must say that you are continuing the trap policy that you always have to put the opposition in a position to choose between bad and worse. What is the purpose of this statement? Of course, there is a purpose on the surface that is very welcome and to be supported, which is about peace; but there is an underlying goal, a game that can also be called a quiet Ulti, which is nothing but to divide the Hungarian society into two, primarily on a political basis, for pro-peaceists, it is you, the good side, and obviously everyone else you call left is obviously a material mistake, but for the sake of simplicity, let us say that they want to accuse us of pro-war. First, in the name of all commoners, I take the liberty of rejecting the pro-war. Not only are they politicians, there is no reasonable person who wants war, who is pro-war, contradicts human nature, but, of course, to fear Hungarian society, he is perfectly capable of doing so, and that the opposition, the dollar left, the left are pro-war. It's not like that. This is a party policy goal, and this line of thought has been smuggled into their declaration so that it is not in essence possible to vote in favour of this statement. However, in the patriot social democrats, they found their man in the struggle for peace. If we look at the history of international social democracy, it is nothing more than the fight against war and the fight for peace, we could also say that it is a peace fight. For example, during the period prior to the First World War, it was the left-wing parties, the social democratic parties, who raised their voice against the war, and the youth of Europe, generally the right-wing parties, which went to the slaughterhouse enthusiastically, voluntarily and singing, and the Hungarian youth went to the Italian, Serbian, Russian front, mostly to die. We Social Democrats have never supported wars, and of course, those who know Hungarian history know exactly what responsibility a Hungarian politician has on this issue. Among other things, those who visited the Hungarian military cemeteries of the Don turn can think. I was there myself, paying my respects to those Hungarian soldiers who died largely in their twenties in a senseless and unjust war. Therefore, the Hungarian political elite, but I think that every reasonable person knows exactly what responsibility we have for peace. But your statement is nothing more than the production of this division. So, in fact, the purpose of this statement is to divide the Hungarian voters in two, and you hope for political benefit from it. Of course, when we talk about content, there are points that are eligible, because what we are talking about is peace itself, humanitarian aid, which we are very supportive of, and we urge you to take action to get as many of these relief shipments as possible to Ukraine, which is not, of course, a weapon, and not something that can be used for military purposes, but, for example, war hospitals, mobile hospitals, I suggest that you take steps to get them there. What is about Transcarpathia, of course, we feel the responsibility, as our Hungarian compatriots are unfortunately dying in this war. Then we know that the reference to NATO and the EU is correct, and it is right that the aggressor is named, but here we have to talk about the content of what does not fit in this statement and why they have created an ambush situation that they think the opposition can do nothing but choose one of the wrong solutions. [[11.40]] After all, if we support this statement, we will legitimize your bad policy, the false policy that names war as the only reason for inflation. Obviously this is not the case; this is a partial reason, largely because of your bad economic policy, the disproportionate tax on food; or the spending of money called or called national consultation, which is about expecting obvious answers to obvious questions for billions. 1.4 million people sent it back, and you claim it to be 97 percent. So if we were to vote in favour, we would legitimise this issue and not just the points in which we really agree, because there are issues in which there should be a national consensus, such as rejection of war, standing up for peace, but there should be a lack of party policy issues in this declaration. So, these are issues that raise doubts for the opposition and for all reasonable people in the noble intention that it really is only about peace and rejection of war. I would like to say that no one has asked us to stand up for peace. No one has asked us to say anything, there are no foreign pressures that you have spoken of here before. We think of ourselves as the right ones, and we don't owe this type of billing to anyone. The Hungarian interest is the first, but the Hungarian interest and we agree that we must stay out of the war, but for some mysterious reason you also want to use this terrible war for party political purposes. So how do you break out of this trap together? And we hope that you will be partners in this. One possible way would be to remove from the declaration points that do not fit and have nothing to do with peace. But there is a better alternative, the proposal of the Hungarian Socialist Party, which is the UN declaration mentioned by you, adopted by the UN General Assembly over three quarters of a week ago, and I think that it would be a clear stand for peace for everyone, and would not leave any doubts that there might be some other purpose behind your intention in this matter. We therefore propose that this statement be supported as an alternative. If this is a vanity issue, then take it by name, but by no means divide Hungarian society with a declaration and do not give the false impression that anyone who refuses to vote for this declaration is pro-war, because, I repeat, we are not pro-war, we want peace, we also want this responsibility, and you have the opportunity to establish a national consensus on at least this one issue, which is related to war. However, it is not the way to do this if petty domestic political goals are smuggled into this declaration. You have the opportunity to take these out and really focus on the point. These are also noble goals, and these are no small tasks for Hungarian politics to create a national consensus in such a difficult situation. If they do not do so, their objective is clearly not to establish a national consensus, not to stand up for peace, but to further strengthen cart camp politics. It's up to you to choose which way you choose. We do not fall for this trap, we know that they have dug a pit for us, we know that they are trying to force the opposition, including the Hungarian Socialist Party, to choose between bad and worse, but now, in my opinion, you are in a trap. We are very curious about their response to the UN declaration, which was also praised by the Prime Minister of Hungary and accepted by the four fifth majority of the United Nations General Assembly. Why is this statement not good for you? We know why, I'll answer. Because nothing legitimises your inflationary reasoning in this regard and does not fundamentally legitimise the issue of national consultation. Once again as a close: this question has come to a very sharp line. You can prove that you are really on the side of peace, you do not want to make party political advantage of this issue, you do not want to profit from anything else, you do not want to profit from it, but you create a consensus for the nation, you see that this trap policy leads nowhere, and you support the UN declaration, or you withdraw your own proposal, and you come with a declaration of peace that is truly worthy of support. This ambush situation is too transparent, and this ambush situation will be avoided by the opposition, and the Hungarian Socialist Party, as a patriot social democratic party, is obviously committed to peace and Hungarian interests. Thank you so much for listening. [[Szabó Timea applauds.]]
u2023-03-07-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is important, at the very beginning of the discussion of the proposal for a decision, to lay down the minimum principles in which I think we all agree and in which the Jobbik-Conservatives agree with the majority of society and with the majority of the parties. It's important to all of us, and we said it yesterday, but every time we speak, it's important to say that we all have peace and a need for peace, I think, in the heart of all good people, and that's why we're confused about what the Russians have done with the start of war and their aggression. This is all good Europeans, but I think it was unacceptable and inexplicable for people around the world. We must also agree that it is a painful loss for all of us, what is happening in Transcarpathia. On the one hand, with the involvement of the indigenous Hungarian-speaking minority and their participation in the fights, the community there suffers a painful loss, the community also suffers losses with displaced people fleeing the war. We're about to see the beautiful landscape of Transcarpathia empty. We sympathize with our fellow countrymen who endure this loss. But in addition to empathizing with them, it is necessary to lay down and acknowledge everyone's efforts over the last year, whether it be families, individuals, charities or state aid, or the aid of churches, which have been provided as humanitarian action and humanitarian aid to all those who have fled from the horrors of war in the last year. Looking back a year, it can be said that one of our great achievements was that Hungary helped those who fled and helped our countrymen who were forced to leave their homes. However, we also need to talk about it and come to it after the establishment of common minimums, in which I think we all agree on the purpose of the proposal and what the proposal looks like. The first sentence of the proposal starts out wrong, as you assume or are trying to draw out from it that the war between Russia and Ukraine has been going on for a year, whereas, my fellow Members, it is the reality, and it should sound like this is how Russia attacked Ukraine a year ago, because this is historical loyalty. The purpose of the proposal for a resolution itself is to establish peace. More people understood what peace meant. We believe that it is a meaningful peace, a just peace that must be spoken of and for which action must be taken, but in fact this proposal is nothing more than a proposal for peace in the air without it, a set of sentences born without the need for further in-depth expansion of a peace. This peace is very difficult to talk about. This is not the peace that we believe belongs to Hungary, to Ukraine, to the peace of civilised nations. This is not in fact the same as the just peace, and here we have to argue with the KDNP... because we have a just peace, and the Vatican has also said so, and a Christian Democrat, if nothing else, must be respected, obviously we can argue with the position that the Vatican represents in this, but we believe that there is a just peace on this issue, and we have put it on our flag. We agree with the Vatican on this, and we agree with those who really want to set this goal. It must also be said that there is no just and lasting peace without the occupying Russian troops returning to their territory. That's why we speak decisively, and I'm sorry if it hurts someone's self-esteem, but in Hungary we were in a position to feel how the Ukrainians feel and have to say it because of historical loyalty that Russians, home! Those who live there and suffer this war, and think of areas that may have been less populated with Russian-speaking populations, think of Kiev when the war took place, think of the massacre in Bucsa, think about where the massacre and destruction are now, and about rebuilding after the pointless destruction, then they can understand what it really means to leave the Ukrainian state. Until we say this, there's no fair peace to talk about. Until we say this, it is the peace of the hanging trees, the peace of the unmarked tombs and the peace of November 4. The Ukrainians can't be forced into this. The peace that you are proposing in this proposal is, by the way, Putin's peace, we can also say that you are the Putin faction. [[11.50]] And you must also clearly see that the decision dictated by Putin will not protect our country, but the NATO and Europe community. They must also clearly see that Europe is our security. Anyone who does not think that way actually wants to drive Hungary out of Europe. And here we have to stop at a point. Viktor Orbán and his fellow parties make such proposals and include sanctions because they include a resolution on the previous election, their debate with the European Community and their position on this proposal for a resolution because they are working on everything, and they have to say that their sad plan is to break up with the European Community. Each such step and the steps of the past years are based on the fact that the government and the Prime Minister really want to lead Hungary out of the European Union. Let's just say it out loud, that's all. Fidesz aims to destroy and betray and then lead Hungary out of the EU so that they can rule freely with the help of the Russians. This is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, in a country that stood up to the entire Soviet army alone in 1956. And today again, the Kremlin's puppet and the Kremlin's puppets are in power again. It is worth talking exactly what you are proposing in this, as if Putin were proposing peace; and he wants to force a peace throughout the world that does not lead to rest and does not lead to real, lasting and just peace. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What are you talking about?]] It is tragic to see it and to talk about it, because it has a larger range, that everything that is happening now leads to Hungary being isolated. We have seen this isolation, we have seen isolation before Trianon, we have learned the lesson from it, we Hungarians have always been injured in this, and it has led to a national tragedy when Hungary has been isolated from its allies, friends, neighbors or people living in the region. What is happening, ladies and gentlemen, is that a new Iron Curtain is about to descend on Europe, and in this Iron Curtain, it seems that your faction, the ruling party and the government have chosen to once again be on the east side of the Iron Curtain. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm 40 today, my parents... [[Intercoms: Happy birthday. Applause.]] I didn't bring it up because of the applause, but my parents, when I was seven, just like my little boy, were at my age. They've been through a change of regime. They hoped and hoped that this country could continue to be led the way, freed from the communist, left-wing and Moscow-dedicated interests that led to Europe; that we would go towards the path that St. Stephen had set out for us. And now I'm standing here at 40, and I find that the country is drifting in that direction, and it's heading in the direction that, by the time my son is 40, he's gonna have to face the problem of a change of regime because he's on the east side of the Iron Curtain, and he's been tied to Russia for the last 33 years, for the eastern interests. It is our shared responsibility that this does not happen. It is our shared responsibility that, if this Iron Curtain descends, Hungary should not be on its eastern side, not be an executive of the interests of Moscow, but a strong ally of the defence alliance that we call NATO, have a strong alliance with the European public, with all the European peoples who live in communion and wish to solve each other's problems and challenges in a community, because once again, Europe is our security. It is incomprehensible, honourable Members, when they talk about sanctions in such a proposal, how you judge sanctions. After all, in Hungary there is a billboard campaign against sanctions, with 97 percent not supporting it, but the government officials and the officials voting in the European Council vote for these sanctions. Nine out of nine or ten out of ten sanctions have been voted for by no accident, Viktor Orbán is called the king of sanctions behind him. And, you know, he's not a new boy in Brussels, but regardless, he seems to be doing everything without a problem, and he's talking about something else at home. When you combine sanctions with peace and war, you simply build your own narratives and self-interest, it has nothing to do with peace. If we could propose a statement on what else we should accept, then this policy statement could also be about how we will renegotiate the treaty with Gazprom, in which we will obtain one of Europe's most expensive gas at five times the price; why this is good or why it is not good for the Hungarian people; what is in fact written in those treaties, and what Putin and Russia have asked you in return for it; that there may be a connection to the current declarations that are in favour of gas contracts. The Hungarian Prime Minister or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has connections in Russia, beyond the fact that they are going for medals for Friendship. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] In closing, I can tell you that we have tabled amendments. These amendments are also trying to bring about a just peace; that the Hungarian Parliament should issue a statement that makes our actual, real position clear and serves real and just peace. We ask nothing more of you than what we have said in the UN General Assembly resolution, namely that Russian troops withdraw from the area where they have no place to be. The Jobbik-Conservatives are committed to ending the war with peace-making as soon as possible, and we support the government in this, by the way, every step that is needed. But, to add, we are in favour of those that promote a fair, Vatican - minded peace. However, this requires a substantial change in their political approach and political methods so far, which is entirely lacking in this proposal for a resolution, honourable Members. I propose that we use the next week and a half to improve this proposal and actually serve the peace that can bring justice to the country that has been struck by war. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-03-07-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Toroczkai, Head of Group, the lead speaker of the Group of Mi Hazánk, who wishes to give his speech on the pulpit. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today we are together because we need to talk about the war in Ukraine, we need to talk about war or peace. And the most important thing about this is that we know what's going on in Ukraine at all, what's going on there. This is a great war of power, where the American conflict and conflict of interest in Russia, clashes with two great powers, two allied systems. And unfortunately, the people living in Ukraine, the Ukrainians, the Russians and, by the way, the Hungarians in Transcarpathia are also the sufferers of this war. They're obviously the most important thing for us. [[The representatives of the Jobbik faction are leaving the meeting room.]] We must stress that two great powers are in conflict in Ukraine, because anyone who has spoken and contributed to this debate, whether on the part of the governing parties or on the united Balliberal side, are all addictive to one of the major powers involved, and from this point on, if they are addictive, which is very easy to prove, and I will soon list, I am not the only one who can prove it, and anyone who is listening to this now, any television viewer knows precisely that you, either the Fidesz or the Balliberal side, will depend stone hard on one of the great powers, whatever they say, any statement we accept or protest against, whether the Balliberal opposition, will not be honest, it will be false. [[Representatives of the DK fraction shall leave the meeting room.]] Let's start with the ruling parties. In the case of the ruling parties, we all know that for many years, more than a decade, it has been possible to track the Balliberal Government before 2010, but now let us stay with the current governing parties to keep on doing business with Russia and the Russians. Among these are shops that our Hungary Movement and any decent Hungarian can support. Such is Paks II, because in a technical sense, it is obvious that it is necessary to cooperate with the Russians, and at least some effort must be made to ensure that Hungary is able to move towards energy security and energy independence. However, we can no longer agree with gas contracts or even Paks II. we do not know why we are getting gas much more expensively than Hungary would otherwise get, if at least at the level of communication, the government is so in favour of Russia. Then the current governing parties are not only tied to Russia because of different business interests, but they also regularly play loyalties to the Atlantis, and while here they declare a war of freedom, and then in international forums, for example, on sanctions policy, Viktor Orbán does not protest, but every time, because otherwise consensus is needed at the European Council and at the Versailles Summit, it is part of the consensus. So he is part of the Brussels sanctions policy, which, by the way, is rightly criticised. [[12.00]] Then let's look at the arms shipments. The government says and we were able to support these sentences until the usual double speech of reality, truth and Fidesz was found out so that Hungary would not deliver weapons, just as the candidate for Prime Minister of the Balliberal side wanted to carry weapons into NATO, but Fidesz says and says that the Orbán government should not carry weapons through us. We can also agree with this, Hungary is in favour of peace. If we look at it from an international point of view, it is Austrian neutrality, which, let us say, could be exemplary for Hungarians. In comparison, the Slovak Minister of Defence spoke out the other day, and we very much hope that the Hungarian Government will respond to this, and we very much hope that it can disprove it; the Slovak Minister of Defence said that Ukrainian soldiers who will be trained in Hungary with Western weapons. If that's true, it's a huge scandal, and we're waiting for the government to talk about it. Then let's look at the parties on the balliberal side. These parties must clearly be treated as united here, as they have all gone out together, in the same election, the same Prime Minister-designate, who was so kind as to lose the billions of dollars or pardons, forints... well, we'll find out that this is the tip of the iceberg, this is the 4 billion forints that we've been able to uncover so far, so that you've received these dollars as you've endured from your owners. [[Szabó Timea and Dr. Zsolt Molnár intervene. Nacsa Lawrence: Was it not enough? A little?]] From America, Switzerland, through globalist money distribution systems disguised as various NGOs. So, technically, you can be seen as agents of these American or Atlantist organizations here in Parliament. From now on, neither side's position on the Ukrainian war can be credible. None of them is independent, and none of them is solely in the interests of the Hungarians. But here is the Movement of Our Country, and it is the Movement of Our Country that has not committed allegiance to either side, to any great power, to any such cause, that we have been financed either from the direction of Russia or from the direction of America. Our campaign, our activity, serves only the interests of the Hungarians and Hungary. Therefore, I will probably say some things in my speech today that we have not yet heard and will not be heard here, but I think it is Hungarian public opinion's concern. For example, if we are talking about the war in Ukraine, it will be said here regularly in Parliament, it has been said today, and I keep hearing that the Russians are going home! To finally say "Russian," home! It's limping in many ways, isn't it? On the one hand, there is a huge problem with this in terms of historical comparison, because in 1956 not Russia, especially today's Russia, but the Soviet Union invaded Hungary, and in the tanks there were a significant number of soldiers of Ukrainian or Ukrainian soldiers, the Ukrainian republic within the Soviet Union, simply because of the physical and geographical proximity. So that's why the Russians are limping home! On the other hand, when they say "Russian," home! Now, either you don't really know the situation in Ukraine, or you're consciously lying, because then you should send home at least eight million Russians. Where are you going? In Ukraine, there were at least eight million Russians, who claimed to be Russian, who used Russian, who were citizens of Ukraine, and about six million of them fled to Russia. Well, where do you Russkies want to go, home! Where do you want to send the Russians? Who? You want to send those Russians who, by the way, are ethnically, ethnically, if you like, to use these words: were persecuted and attacked on a racial basis? Do you remember what happened in Odessa at the union headquarters? 'Cause let's get to the roots of this war. In fact, the war did not start last year, but in 2013 it started with Maidan, in the case of the future coup... which is very difficult, because it can be said that in a corrupt system, a corrupt leader, head of state and government were elected in Ukraine before 2013. Because you are right about that, just to add that the current government, the current head of state system, is just as corrupt in Ukraine, and it has just come to light that while, by the way, Ukrainian nationalists are being sent to the front to die, while, by the way, the public funds and aid are still being used to the benefit of Ukraine. So the kind of moral pedestal they put themselves in when they want to judge the current situation, in many ways, I'm just saying again that it's limping. In 2013, in the case of the future coup, we now know specifically that there were foreign threads, not only secret service threads, mercenaries appeared in the area of Maidan, but also ambassadors, as the Canadian ambassador, were involved in the events at that time. So this is the situation that, a year ago, led to a war now openly, a very, very serious war. This was preceded by the kind of ethnic conflict in which Russians and Ukrainians constantly attacked each other on an ethnic basis. I don't know who dares to say it, but, well, then, we say who, say, are in American pay, certainly can't say it as if everyone had forgotten, and that is a very important detail of this event and the path to peace about who blew up the North Stream. It is very important, of course, to say the least, but it is very important because, by blowing up the Nord Stream, the damage was not actually done to Russia, but mainly to Germany and Germany because of the failed economic policies of the Fidesz and Balliberians over the past 30 years, it is very important. And if they harm the German and Hungarian economies, they also harm the European Union's economy, because the European Union's leading economy, especially after the Brexit, is Germany. And any economic process that is not linked to Fidesz's failed economic policy is linked, among other things, to this terrorist attack. Do you remember what Ursula von der Leyen said? What did the Head of the European Commission say after the terrorist act? He also said that the hardest, the strictest, will be to investigate who committed this terrorist attack on Europe. Well, it's even more quiet than what's here in the plenary. [[Péter Cseresnyés: I'd better not say anything.]] It's been awfully quiet since then. It's awfully quiet. There was someone here who said that there was someone here at international level who said it right after the terrorist attack, the international terrorist attack against Europe. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: That's what the Prime Minister said.]] It is called Radosław Sikorski, who is, by the way, the former Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs, and not only for this reason he is also an MEP, but also because his spouse Anna Applebaum, is one of the most important representatives and experts of our region and Eastern Europe from the point of view of the United States of America and the Atlantis side. Well, they might know that, and he immediately wrote it on his social media platform to thank you very much, America. Then his bosses told him where he was getting the money, this time probably not from the direction of the Arab Emirates, but from the western direction, because then he deleted this entry. [[Towards Szabó Timea Nacsa Lőrinc: Is this too much for you?]] Why is it that the European Commission has been silent about the matter ever since? It is very simple: it acts as an American agent, as do left-wing or left-wing parties. However, here is a good opportunity to find out which side Fidesz-KDNP is on in this case, on the side of the Hungarians or on the side of the Atlantis. And that is the question of the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. The fact that the Balliberal side obviously supports it is not a question, since that's what they say about the West. What the Fidesz-KDNP is doing will be the foundation for Hungarians and Hungarian voters to decide whether you really are defending the interests of Hungary, independent Hungary and Hungarians, or to participate in the escalation that threatens the world war, the threat of the Third World War. So here's your chance. We are not saying that we are arguing at the Group meeting, we are unanimously rejecting it, we are unanimously voting against the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, we are doing this for our Finnish and Swedish friends. We are doing this because they are not currently under threat from any attack, but if they enter NATO, they will be in great danger because World War III is dangerous to everyone. In a nuclear war, no one will win at the end. And one more very important thing, not only about blowing up the North Stream, one more very important thing needs to be said here today, in case anyone else doesn't mention it, I have a feeling they won't mention it. And that is to remember what Volodimir Zelensky had to do with the extremely important case, which is why, after the war broke out, he showed for months even using hologram videos that he wouldn't leave Kiev, he wouldn't leave the territory of Ukraine, what was the reason he was still going to Washington, but that's a long way from Kiev. [[12.10]] In September 2022, the war was already underway; BlackRock was the world's largest money management company, which practically bought Ukraine with this agreement. If we are looking for the beneficiaries of the war, then at BlackRock and its like-haired giant, global, handling 10 trillion US dollars, this can also be quite a big money for the left-wing Balliberal Hungarian parties, and they will certainly get their heads up, it's the global corporations that handle this kind of money, which are the beneficiaries of this whole war. That is why they want to prolong this war the longer they want, because the easier, the cheaper they will buy Ukraine, some of which, unfortunately, will be blown away, but there will still be land, natural resources and much more. And before my time runs out, let me mention the most important thing, and it's Transcarpathia. In the case of Transcarpathia you can say nice words here, you can say that it protects either side, the Fidesz or the Balliberal side... I have just heard from the Balliberal side that they are interested in Transcarpathian Hungarians, which is new to me. But don't forget one thing. The Kiev regime has been anti-Hungarian for a very long time, not since the beginning of the war; in March 2021 László Brenzovics, President of KMKZSZ, was a refugee in Budapest. The Hungarian government should have stood up much more firmly for the interests of the Hungarians, because by the time we stand up, and by the time this terrible and bloody war is over, it will not remain in Hungarian Transcarpathia. And I also miss the fact that in one international forum, it has not yet been said that the Carpathian referendum in 1991 has been trampled by the Kiev regime to this day. We want peace instead of declarations from the Hungarian Movement, we want real peace, we want immediate negotiations, we want an immediate ceasefire, so Ukraine must also probably resign from territories, we must make sacrifices, as the Hungarians have done in the 20th century. In the century. That is why we will be protesting on 15 March at 15:00 during Pilvax, because we really want peace in Europe and especially for neutral Hungarians and Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-07-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-03-07-51	Ladies and gentlemen, The Dialogue is truly committed to peace, condemning all forms of war. The problem is that the Fidesz fake peace proposal before us does not serve this purpose in any way. Hungarian interests and I stress that Hungarian interests want this war to end immediately, but we cannot speak of equal responsibility with regard to Russia and Ukraine. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who said that? Who told you that?]] This war was started by Russia, Russia, which, with an unprovoked aggression, attacked an independent, sovereign country, and in an unjust way, in violation of all international treaties, wants to occupy and spill thousands of lives there. The problem with the proposal submitted by Fidesz is that he is still relativising responsibility, and he still does not clearly acknowledge that the war is only the responsibility of Vladimir Putin and the Russians. The title of the fake peace proposal submitted by Fidesz is misleading, as it talks about the Russian-Ukrainian war, about the Russian-Ukrainian war that broke out a year ago, although it is not the way to put it, but it must be said that Vladimir Putin started his illegal and unprovoked war against independent Ukraine a year ago. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He condemns Russia's aggression!]] If the Fidesz MEPs were indeed on the side of peace, they would not try to combine Russia and Ukraine's responsibility in this respect. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Introduce him in writing, please.]] In order for the Parliament to accept a real peace proposal, the Dialogue makes an amendment, where they are corrected by Fidesz or by accident, but rather by deliberately committing misdirections. First of all, the proposal tabled by the Dialogue states that only Russia and what is not in Fidesz's proposal is responsible for this war, we say Vladimir Putin. For some reason, you don't dare say Vladimir Putin's name, I'm sure your owners said that you can't do that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Vladimir Putin!]] "You mustn't say it because it's time for a retortion. However, we would like to say clearly that Vladimir Putin is responsible for this war. There will also be peace, and this must be said if Russia immediately withdraws from the entire territory of Ukraine. It is very interesting that the proposal submitted by Fidesz states that Ukraine's right to self-defense is recognised. It does not include recognising Ukraine's right to their entire territorial claim. It does not include recognising Russia's exit from the entire territory of Ukraine. It says here that you acknowledge that you have the right to defend yourself in this country. It's very little, it's that slide again, they're acting like the smart girl that we brought, and we're not, we're giving, we're not, we're acting like we're on Ukraine's side, but we're not judging the Russians as much as they deserve. The proposal of the Dialogue clearly includes the need to restore Ukraine's borders in 1991, so that Russia, the Russian army, should withdraw from all the territory of Ukraine. The issue of sanctions in the proposal submitted by Fidesz is also very interesting. It is proposed by Fidesz that European sanctions did not in any way bring about their hopes, since they did not stop the war and only weakened Europe, and they did not weaken Russia. On the one hand, it has already been said here, but we really need to repeat this every time that Viktor Orbán voted for all ten EU sanctions, all ten of them. Those who vote in favour of sanctions and agree with them should not then explain in another community that otherwise these sanctions are not good. Then why did you vote for him? This amendment tabled by the Dialogue states that, yes, we encourage Mr Orbán to continue voting on these sanctions if necessary, as he has done so far. And how much has this sanction weakened Europe or Russia? Let's see that the average GDP growth in the European Union in 2022 was 3.3 percent, according to OECD data. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How much in Hungary?]] At the same time in Russia, i.e. in 2022, there was a 3.9 percent reduction in GDP. So Europe's economy grew last year and Russia's economy fell. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How much was it in Hungary?]] So it is not true that Russia was not negatively affected by sanctions. It is also forecast that in 2023 the average GDP growth in Europe will be 0.5 per cent, while Russia will again suffer a decline, predicting this to 5.6 per cent. So it is not true that Russia will not suffer sanctions because it will suffer. You also claim that Hungary is particularly negatively affected, even in relation to Europe, by this sanctioning inflation, while we know that the sanctions imposed against Russia do not affect the gas market and oil imports are only affected by the exception of Hungarian imports. So they're not telling the truth then [[Nacsa Lawrence: 'Cause we fought it out!]] Or, in a somewhat popular way, they lie when they claim that the energy market is subject to sanctions, because Hungary has also received an exception. [[12.20]] Then let's take a look at this so-called penalty inflation that you so like to advertise. There's no such thing as sanctioned inflation! In Hungary alone, there is infinite inflation! Half and a third of the rest of the European Union. [[István Hollik: Tripled!]] This is not a sanctioned inflation, it is an incredibly bad governance. But then let me show you the statistics made by Eurostat. [[He's showing me a graph.]] This is the top line, Hungarian inflation. This is Hungarian inflation. Above it is the little dark, the European average, which is almost a third of Hungarian inflation. [[István Hollik intervenes.]] The EU inflation average is 10,5 percent and the Hungarian average is 26 percent! [[Nacsa Lawrence: Don't look at that. Annual inflation.]] In Spain, for example, 5,9 percent, but look at neighbouring countries: 13,4 percent in Romania. In Romania, inflation is half as high as in Hungary, even though they are neighbouring the war zone, and they are further east of us. Also, if you look at Austria, inflation is 11 percent, inflation in Slovenia is 9.9 percent [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What you're saying is not true!]] But even in Poland, inflation is 15.9 percent. By the way, this is the latest inflation rate in January. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Say the year-old!]] This is the annual inflation rate compared to a year ago! The fact that you do not understand this, my dear fellow Member of the KDNP, is not the fault of the people. [[Nacsa Lőrinc intervenes several times.]] So let us say once and for all that there is no sanctioned inflation at a time when the EU inflation rate is one third of that of Hungarians. So we're really hoping that you guys are gonna finish this right now. Also, if we move on, the amendment to the Dialogue is what has been left out of yours again, and it is so clear that after Russian aggression, war criminals must be convicted in international courts after the war has ended. War crimes must be investigated, including war criminals, including Vladimir Putin, including the Wagner group, including most of the Russian army, those who raped women, who kidnapped children, who bombed children's hospitals during the ceasefire. Why isn't this in your so-called peace proposal? That's because it's a fake peace proposal that we're seeing from you. Let me say a few words about energy independence, which is also partly related to this, which is included in the Dialogue proposal. It is time, like other European countries, that we take this opportunity, like Slovakia or Austria, to start to separate from Russian energy dependence. Even Austria and Slovakia have reduced Russian energy dependence, and we have increased it as the only EU country. This can't be allowed! [[Nacsa Lőrinc intervenes several times.]] Turn to renewable energy sources and reduce this exposure from the Russians. The issue of Transcarpathian Hungarians is also very important, which has been mentioned here by several people. It is important to state, and this is the proposal of the Dialogue, that the Hungarian communities in Transcarpathia clearly condemn Russian aggression. The Hungarian communities in Transcarpathia do not want to live under a puppet government set up by Russia. The Hungarian government stands up for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia if it supports a peace negotiation, which includes the immediate withdrawal of the Russian army from the entire territory of Ukraine. Finally, it is also an important question, I believe, that the lead speaker of Fidesz mentioned it, because in your proposal, Fidesz's proposal, you call on the public figures to refrain from disinformation. In the proposal of the Dialogue, we also ask the Hungarian public media, the pro-government press and the Hungarian public actors to refrain from unilaterally presenting the conflict against Russian, anti-Ukrainian and the disinformation spread by the Kremlin. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Let me quote a sentence from some of the public figures you know well. András Bencsik, the great organizer of the peace procession, said: "Man has a feeling that at some point it would be good to find out who actually attacked whom with this war. Well, if this isn't a relativisation of Russian aggression, I don't know what it is. Zsolt Bayer, right, the owner of Fidesz' 5th party book said: We've seen brutality from the Russians, but if the question is who had this interest, then... it's not the Russians, it's fixed! So indeed, we would also like to call on you to stop the Russian disinformation campaign and stop misinformationing people against the war. Unfortunately, we have seen and heard from Viktor Orbán when he said, "Don't look at what I'm saying, but what I'm doing!" While you are rhetorically in favour of EU membership and NATO membership on the one hand, on the other hand, you are doing everything you can to ensure that Hungary is not a member of the European Union or NATO in the future. Let us say clearly that, in the long term, Viktor Orbán is working so that Hungary can leave the European Union and not become a member of NATO. The Dialogue rejects this farthest, because if we are talking about Hungarian interests, then it must be said that Hungary's future, security and economic development is in the European Union, not in the Eastern bloc, not as a colony of Russia, not as a henchman of Russia, but as an active member of the European Community. If you are truly committed to peace, you really want to express your condemnation of Russia's war, then you will accept the amendment tabled by the Dialogue. Everything else is liberating misconceptions and misinformation of people. Really stand for the end of the war, for peace and for the full freedom of Ukraine! Thank you very much.
u2023-03-07-52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll inform you that... [[Nacsa Lőrinc to Szabó Timea: Will you stay for the debate? Szabó Timea: No. The kid's sick, he's been throwing up all night.]] I would like to ask you to understand that I am trying to give the Member a signal that she has not indicated that she wants to use an illustration tool. I did not wish to interrupt your speech as a speaker, but please report next time or refrain from using it. [[Szabó Timea: All right.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2023-03-07-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to join the debate briefly and speak from an energy policy perspective, as energy policy in this security policy and geopolitical war situation, I think it is very, very important and very important for Hungary as well. Because if there's anything the Russians' aggression has proven, if something's become clear over the last year, it's that the world order based on fossil energy is over. From the LMP side, we greens have been stressing this for over a decade, and by now at least we are beginning to get more and more widely into thinking that fossil energy is not cheap, it has never been cheap, it has been extremely dangerous, and it does not reduce energy independence, but it increases it explicitly. We consider it extremely harmful, risky and dangerous for the escalation of war to be very dangerous that the world, and Europe within it, and especially Hungary, still finances this outrageous aggression with fossil energy. What the Hungarian government is doing in this area, not only is it not a solution, but it is not enough for symptomatic treatment. The current energy crisis is the result of a misguided policy that the government has denied greening over the last decade. [[12.30]] And in this situation, it is even more incomprehensible that they are still so attached to fossil energy, oil, natural gas that they are not willing to screw this whole thing down, they continue to support this dependence. Even though the government promises all kinds of things to the European Union, which, by the way, always deals with fossil energy, they will not start working on a green transition. There is no new government regulation on wind power licensing, solar energy is still subject to severe restrictions, and new and new restrictions are being introduced in this area. The problem is not that the ruling party is presenting a pro-peace resolution proposal. Clearly, everyone wants peace, and everyone supports peace. At the same time, the Hungarian national interest, in addition to peace, is that this war ends, and that Russia does not threaten Hungary, and we will not be neighbouring with Russia. This is why it is particularly important to declare that the Russian tanks have gone in a very wrong direction for the Hungarian national interest. No war can be supported, but when we have Russian tanks a few hundred kilometers away, we have to say that it is in our fundamental national interest that we cannot be neighbouring with Russia. The Hungarian government still doesn't understand that in fact, the insistence on fossil energy doesn't help peace efforts, it explicitly slows them down. To put it another way and more clearly, this war will last as long as we insist on fossil energy. And we make the same mistake when it comes to nuclear energy. Yet, it is also clear that dangerous and expensive nuclear energy also increases, not reduces, our dependence. The Fidesz government is absurdly in favour of Paks expansion and nuclear power in general. Of course, if we look at what this is really about, then the absurdity remains, but the misguided government logic is revealed. In recent times, it was discovered that Paks II. Its construction is also necessary to turn Hungary into a battery company. One example of this is that two weeks ago, a government decision was issued that HUF 115 billion was intended for the development of the electricity grid between Szeged and Szolnok. This clearly serves the purpose of taking the power to Debrecen. So it's Paks II. The project is about the construction of a nuclear power plant in Hungary with Russian credit, Russian technology, which is indebted to Hungary for a whole century. This loan will also be paid back to Russia by our grandchildren, and the energy produced here will be taken to the car companies, the battery companies, where they will produce Chinese batteries, which will then be installed in German cars, which export German cars to different parts of Europe and the world. This is a policy of addiction and colonization, in an economic sense. This shameful war has been going on for more than a year: everyone wants peace, but until we understand how we finance this war, this situation will not end, and until we consider it a basis for an end to the world order based on fossil energy, this war will remain with us. So what we need here is a fundamental change in terms of the world view of energy; we also need to change that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of MSZP and DK.]]
u2023-03-07-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr Róbert Zsigó, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for the floor on a case-by-case basis. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I indicated my point of order after about 10:30 when we started negotiating the pro-peace declaration, and I would like to say to Mr President that I have absolutely no intention of criticising the session, but the story of the future is worth mentioning, at least for the sake of the minutes. About a few minutes after 10:30, we started this political debate, which is about an important political declaration concerning the security of the Hungarian people, about how we should stand together for peace in this war period. Máté Kocsis, as rapporteur, spoke to the debate, when, by the way, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, who is still performing her duties as notary, came down from the platform several times, although she could do so, she shouted several times...
u2023-03-07-56	Congressman, I'm sorry, but there's only one...
u2023-03-07-57	... to the speaking Member...
u2023-03-07-58	...he had a minute to bring this up.
u2023-03-07-59	So I would ask Mr President to persuade the congresswoman not to yell and disturb the sitting when performing her duties as notary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-07-60	Mr President, I take it as an observation that you cannot, of course, criticise the leadership of this meeting, and I do not consider this to be a point of order. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz Group.
u2023-03-07-61	Very briefly, because a lot has been said. I would certainly respond to one thing, when Congressman Arató accused us of being Russian pro-Russian, once again: we are on the side of the Hungarian national interest. And speaking of Russian pro-Russianism, I don't know whose lap Toto dog was sitting on. Also, remember, during the Prime Ministership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, you sold part of MOL, the left served the Russians, and the left was the one who let the KGB into the Hungarian secret services during the Gyurcsány era. Now, quite rightly, both the left and DK are in favour of the Ukrainians, but you were the ones who led us against the Ukrainian pensioners, let us remember, everywhere on the media, they were very loudly teasing against the Ukrainians. It is very right that you now support the Ukrainians. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-07-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no other two-minute speeches have been made, further speeches will now be made. I give the floor to Congresswoman Kinga Gál, our MEP, whom I welcome to the Hungarian Parliament. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-03-07-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A year ago, the devastating war took place in Ukraine, and I thought of Miklós Radnóti's lines preparing for this speech. This is how it sounds: after the burning winter of their war, we are waiting for the, the windy March, and we are thinking of the summers,, because there will be peace someday. However, the increasingly terrible events next door show that the end of the war, the peace, has gone to a frightening distance. We've been living in the shadow of war for a year, and we don't see the end yet. The war has already caused irreparable damage: it has torn apart families, destroyed the sacrifices of generations and the dreams of young people, while the number of wounded in battlefields is increasing and the number of casualties, including those of our Hungarian compatriots, because the price of the war is primarily paid by the Ukrainian people. And we, the citizens of Europe, and we Hungarians, who live here in the neighbouring country, have to deal with the dangers. As a result of the war, Europe is already facing unprecedented challenges: energy crisis, rising inflation, loss of economic competitiveness, geopolitical instability. It is becoming increasingly clear that peace alone can be a lasting solution that can alleviate these burdens. In sympathy with the mothers, the wives, as Christians, as Hungarians, and personally as mothers in particular, we know one thing: we do not want to feed this war, but we want to end it. In the European Parliament, since the outbreak of the war, I have stressed in many of my speeches that the Hungarian position has been clear and clear since the beginning of the war: we condemn Russia's military aggression against Ukraine, which is a serious violation not only under international law, but also from a moral point of view. [[12.40]] We must do everything we can to reject inhumanity and injustice. Therefore, in all my speeches, I pointed out that we Hungarians are in solidarity and are sympathetic to the victims and the victims of the war in Ukraine. We condemn all attacks on Ukraine's territorial integrity and recognise Ukraine's right to self-defense. For Hungary, national identity and territorial sovereignty remain among the most protective values. Accordingly, we have supported and supported Ukraine financially and by means of infrastructure from the beginning of the war. Hungary is providing Ukraine with the largest humanitarian assistance in its history, has adopted over 1 million refugees, and we will continue to do everything we can to help the people of Ukraine. Politicians referring to European values are losing their role when they stand in favour of sanctions ruining Europe's economy and arms shipments risking escalation in the world. I am convinced that saving lives and helping sufferers are the most important things in a war conflict. The longer the war goes on, the more damage, the destruction, the more human sacrifice. The last year has provided clear evidence that sanctions will not stop the war and will not weaken Russia to the extent they expect. However, energy prices, economic damage and rampant inflation have been skyrocketed in all EU countries. There is no family in Europe today that does not feel the increasing burden of sanctioning inflation. In all EU Member States, I stress what I see well in Belgium. We are therefore opposed to the European Parliament's demands that would further broaden the scope of energy sanctions. We are opposed to decisions in Brussels whose economic losses are greater than the difficult to predict, which so far show that Europe is bleeding out more than the Russia it seeks to sanction. All this should be to get the leaders of the Union to reconsider their policies. Unfortunately, in Brussels, we face the exact opposite every day. In the resolutions, the pursuit of peace and the achievement of a truce are not reflected. Further arming is all the more likely to lead to an escalation of war. A new approach and a European peace plan would be needed instead of European arms procurement and transport. We must avoid bringing Europe into this war. As a fully committed member of NATO and the European Union, Hungary will do everything in its commitment as a sovereign state to promote peace. Instead of arms shipments and further sanctions, we represent the issue of developing a European peace proposal for peace negotiations and the closure of the war. For this reason, I welcome the proposal for a resolution of the Peace Party that we are discussing here, dear colleagues. At this point, it is important to talk about the Hungarian minority in Ukraine, who are equally suffering from Russian aggression. In this war, the Transcarpathians of Ukraine are also sacrificing their blood. Our countrymen. The situation of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia was extremely difficult even before the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, but even worse since the war started. It is unacceptable that, while the Ukrainian Hungarians are also taking part in the war on the defence of the country, in the background, the rights of national minorities are being undermined, further drastic restrictions on the rights of language use and education, the removal of Hungarian symbols, and constant provocations against minority institutions. The situation of minority and linguistic rights has deteriorated significantly in recent years. For example, according to the latest robbing Ukrainian law, nationality schools in the country will virtually cease in September. In Brussels, we often find that they are not aware of the situation of Hungarian, Romanian and Bulgarian minorities living in Ukraine. That is why it is important to draw Europe's attention to the law-absorbing and discriminatory case-law. At the same time, Hungary is still seeking constructive, good relations with Ukraine and supports its integration into the EU. At the same time, as I have said in the European Parliament on several occasions, it must be a prerequisite for Ukraine's accession to the EU to guarantee minority and linguistic rights. In this context, the first step is to fully restore the existing rights of national minorities. Allow me to conclude my comment by quoting a letter received last night with the thoughts of a Hungarian woman in Transcarpathia. It's not easy to sum up a year trying to be like this. Many times, when asked how I am, I find no words, since there is no word for how difficult it is. How difficult it is to be away from loved ones, and how difficult it is to fear for our male relatives who go to work every day. How difficult it is to spend 20 hours with candlelight, how difficult it is to see products on the shelves of shops at a terrible price with cuts in every workplace and businesses panga. And how hard it is to find hope in a war maze. I don't feel old, but I feel like this is the hardest year of my life and the hardest time of my life. What's keeping us hoping at home, in Transcarpathia? I don't know what keeps my community alive spiritually, but I have three things: the power of my ancestors, the faith and the love of my homeland. With us, Hungarians have faced so much difficulty for a century that we have learned to endure from our ancestors in the most difficult times. To believe, to trust, to hope that the Creator God will listen to our daily prayers. We've been here a year because God kept us. Not only are we facing challenges, but we are also learning. We have learned to thank you for everything: heating, a few hours of electricity, and for not having our lives in danger, and for so much more. Sadly, in the great speeches near the one - year anniversary, hopeful things were not said, but we are constantly hoping. We believe, trust, hope in God, and hope that one day by his grace we can live a full life again, and that we will look back only as bad memories for this year of trying. When is this? I hope so, as soon as possible. Let peace be at last. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There is a proposal before us that calls itself a proposal for peace, but it is actually about how this war could continue. Let's start with sanctions. There is only one Hungarian person who voted for the sanctions, all ten, ten out of ten, and he is called Viktor Orbán. No one else. You can point out to the opposition that we are the pro-sanctioners, you can put out millions of billboards for billions of forints, but that doesn't make it true. It was also not true that 97 percent of the Hungarian voters were against sanctions, because your vote in this case was virtually unsuccessful. You also say that there is nothing more important than human life and that, in fact, Ukraine is protected. So I watched, for example, one of your media flagships, the Origo, when all you have to write down is Zelensky's name, what headlines it gives you. Obviously, none of us suspect the Origo to be completely independent of any communication machine in the Fidesz. I'm just giving you the addresses. Even the Ukrainian Joint Chiefs are fed up with Zelensky sending soldiers to their deaths. The Ukrainians have rebelled against Zelensky, they are fed up with the president. Now Zelensky wants to start the nuclear war with a gun. Zelensky is already threatening the American people. Why did you take the train, Joe? This article is about Joe Biden's visit to Kiev. I would like to point out that Joe Biden is an ally of Hungary and the leader of NATO's largest military force. [[Nacsa Lawrence: It would be nice to have him act like one.]] Here's the problem: the Orbán government is doing nothing else with this resolution, and also with the attitude it has followed over the past year, rather than talking about seemingly peace, but in fact, it is thinking about Russian interests. [[12.50]] The Hungarian XX. There are many examples in the history of the century when those in power thought that they were the only ones representing the national interest, and all we can hear now is that if the opposition wants to politicalize in the interests of the nation, then vote for what Fidesz wants. We know this story, and in the First World War, the one who did not want to march into the world war with the Habsburg Empire, with Ferenc József; Endre Ady made this country an object of contempt, because he said that this war would harm Hungary. In 1941, László Bárdossy represented the Hungarian national interest, and everyone else who did not think we had to go against the Americans and give a declaration of war to the Soviet Union was obviously considered a traitor. However, this was not only true on the right side of Hungary, let me quote another politician: Just because we are soldiers of the international peace front, we are confronted with Western imperialists, who, under the leadership of the war factory and bankers of the United States of America, are trying to rule the world. These bankers, capitalists, want World War III because the world wars we've had so far have brought them immense benefits. We held firm and stick to the front of peace. We want to continue with a policy that provides our people with a great deal of suffering to create peace. I was quoting Mátyás Rakosi. As if I could quote any Fidesz politician or even Prime Minister Viktor Orbán [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. István Hollik: Say you, heirs of the Communists!]] They say exactly the same texts, nothing's changed. He also spoke of peace, Comrade Rákosi, while, as Stalin's best student, he practically supported war. [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] By the way, speaking of press issues, you can't forget that on News TV, they're openly talking about Fidesz journalists being with the Russians. So they're not saying that we're neutral, or go on, Ukraine, or Russians, home, nothing like that; we're with Russians, says András Bencsik. Let's say in his case, we weren't surprised, because he returned to what he had represented in the '70s in the People's Freedom Party section, so he obviously thought about it as well as 56. [[Nacsa Lawrence: And where was Gyurcsány then? The greatest communist! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That Khrushchev is right. Then it is also said here that there have been a number of such speeches that Russia will not be affected by sanctions and that Russia's economy is excellent. Well, no. Russia's economy is in recession, in a very serious recession, and according to the official report of the Russian Ministry of Finance, the losses of the Russian economy increased 14 times over a year; the losses of the Russian economy increased 14 times over a year. So the sanctions, which Viktor Orbán has voted for, work. Then I would also like to say that a few weeks ago the Ukrainian ethnic advocate spoke here in Parliament, his dramatic words, I think that all sensitive souls and ears were affected; but he said a very important sentence, above which everyone missed, said that Russian propaganda had moved into Hungary, he said. And that's true. [[Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul intervenes.]] Russian propaganda moved into the Fidesz press [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: He didn't say!]] And obviously that's what he was thinking because what else could he be thinking? Let me also quote that the Hungarian national interest should not be entertained. What you are doing, for example, with Swedish and Finnish NATO membership, is simply harming Hungary's national interests. The expansion of NATO does not harm Hungary, and otherwise I am not interested in the Russian interest at the moment [[Peter Cseresnyés: And the rolling dollars?!]] What interests me is that NATO, a member of which Hungary is a member, will be as strong as possible and will be able to give as much support as possible to the security of Hungary, in accordance with the interests of Hungary. When a Hungarian delegation to Sweden and Finland goes out and the former Finnish Foreign Minister receives the company in advance by saying that there is nothing to discuss with the Fidesz delegation [[Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul intervenes.]] And today's Swedish lead newspaper is gangsters... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: They're at the Speaker's now! The president's ringing the bell.]] Today's Swedish newspaper, leading newspaper, called the Fidesz gangsters, which he found to be... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Did you write it? Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Liberal daily!]] Obviously we wrote it, yes, we write the Swedish daily, the Gyurcsány, of course! We're gonna reach a long way. [[Péter Cseresnyés and Dr. Zsigmond Barna Paul intervene.]] So that's where the Fidesz is received. And then they tell you to call a truce. Fine. Let's have peace. Fine. It is in the interests of all Hungarians to have peace in Ukraine. But what is the price of this ceasefire? Can the Russians stay inside? Is that their place, where they've been busy? And then Ukraine was lost as an independent state? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who said that?!]] No, the Hungarian national interest is not the [[István Hollik: This is a question of peace negotiations!]] which, by the way, Viktor Orbán also dropped a certain sentence about not wanting a common border with Ukraine, so it's okay if the Russians come a little closer, it's okay with him. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He didn't say that!]] Just don't have a common line. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He does not want a common border with Russia! The president's ringing the bell.]] So I have to say, it's not okay. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You're lying! Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: He didn't say that!]] I want you to look back at your speech. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Okay, I'd like to continue. It is therefore a matter of not giving up the independence of Russia... and Ukraine. The only solution to this story is that the Russians are going out from Ukraine, because it is also in Hungary's interest. It is not in Hungary's interest that Fidesz lose further allies with this attitude. Hungary, Viktor Orbán and Fidesz are facing the entire European community. Are the Poles crazy? Are the Baltics crazy? Are the Czechs crazy? Are the Slovaks crazy, the Romanians? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We have to look at our own perspective!]] Is everyone wrong? Is it just the man who visited Putin a few days before the war broke out? This is Congressman Sigismund dropping a seemingly funny joke about Toto's dog. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Unfortunately, it's not funny!]] I would like to remind you that when Ferenc Gyurcsány was Prime Minister, Vladimir Putin was considered by the entire European community as a possible democratic solution for Russia in the long term. This Vladimir Putin, when he negotiated with Ferenc Gyurcsány, ended with the Gyurcsány government reclaiming the library in Sárospataki. [[Péter Cseresnyés: He sold MOL! Nacsa Lőrinc: In return, he sold MOL!]] That was the end of it... [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Not the library! Some books!]] The end was that Vladimir Putin, here in Kossuth Square, was kneeling at the '56 eternal flame, bowing his head to the martyrs of the '56 Revolution and War of Independence, together with Ferenc Gyurcsány I am talking about the eternal flame that your government had already taken away from the revolution of '56. [[And what did Antal Tiny say?!]] from a cult site in Kossuth Square [[István Hollik: Small fork?!]] That's pretty much how it went. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has not taken over the Druzsba Prize, then the story worked by having equal diplomatic parties negotiated in accordance with the interests of Hungary and its national interests. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: The KGB! Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] I would therefore also like to emphasise in this matter that the Democratic Coalition is pro-peace, the Democratic Coalition does not want war, the Democratic Coalition wants NATO to be strengthened, the European Union to strengthen Ukraine's return to full territorial integrity, independence, sovereignty, Russians to return to Russia, and do not endanger the Baltics, threaten Moldova, threaten Poland, as you would otherwise lead Russian politicians to do, is that okay? [[Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul intervenes.]] We don't think it's okay. The Democratic Coalition is therefore pro-peace, even though you will say it a hundred times and a thousand times that anyone who does not vote for your resolution is pro-war, that does not make it true. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-07-66	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Hollik, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think that in such a resolution it is worth considering the last year, what has happened in the last year, and that if we do that, unfortunately, the picture that is presented to us is very tragic. For tens of thousands of people died in this terrible war, mothers became widows, children became orphans and men died on the front. The cost of war can be measured in human lives, and the work of hundreds of thousands of people has been destroyed by this war. I also spoke to a Transcarpathian Hungarian who fled the war, had to leave the cattle, the house, the machines, everything he had fought for. [[13.00]] (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) We can also see that this war has not only cost hundreds of thousands of people their lives, but also the result of this war is that Europe has suffered incredible economic damage. Only Hungary has suffered HUF 4000 billion in damage due to the war, the damage is even greater at European level. So if we have to sum up the last year, we can really say that the consequences are tragic. Plus, in the last year, we've not gotten any closer to the end of the war, but we've moved away from it. Today, there is no expert who dares to say that the end of the war is near and there is a chance of a brief end to the war. This opens up a number of questions, such as the fact that Europe and the Western world, including America, have taken a good position on the assessment of war. Our firm position is that you are not, and you are in the wrong position today, because you are not thinking about peace, you are thinking about war. I would like to talk about the purpose of this pro-peace resolution that lies before us. Its aim is to make Hungary's position clear. This is because today there is enormous pressure from the pro-war forces, at least in the Western world, to get Hungary in line and do the same thing that others do, send weapons, stand up for sanctions, support further sanctions. However, we see that in the last year this policy has led us to be further away from peace. We don't think this is the way to go. Nevertheless, the pro-war pressure is great, so this pro-peace resolution declares that Hungary is still on the side of peace. It is important to stress this because we heard something completely different from the dollar left here. Mr harvesto literally said to him that the purpose of this pro-peace resolution is to support the position in Putin and to weaken the positions of the EU and NATO. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's right, that's right!]] Timea Szabó talked about the fact that this pro-peace resolution is relativity of responsibility, Zsolt Molnár talked about the fact that you are in fact pro-peace. Now let's see what's in this resolution. Once again, because we have already done so in a resolution, we condemn Russia's military aggression and recognise Ukraine's right to self-defense. I don't know if that makes sense. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: They don't understand.]] You believe that this sentence was dictated by Putin, and that would be the position in Putin, that Hungary condemns Russia's military aggression and that we recognise Ukraine's right to self-defense. You believe that it is undermining NATO and the position of the EU that it is included in this decision that Hungary is a committed member of NATO and the European Union. I would like to ask my honourable fellow Member, Arato, whether you can hear what he is saying or just say it. 'Cause I get it. [[Gergely Harvesto: I even understand you!]] In this situation, there are two ways to go, and there is no other way. Either there's a path to peace, or there's a path to war, and you chose war. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: There is no other way but the way of God!]] The fact is that you must somehow justify this, but there could have been better arguments to reject the pro-peace resolution, the pro-peace resolution. Because that's what you're doing, and you're rejecting this decision. We also see that it is quite obvious that you want to serve the pro-war Western system and Western politics unconditionally, uncritically. That is why they say that sanctions work perfectly. Let's get to the issue of sanctions. Gergely Arató and Timea Szabó also said that there is no penalty inflation. [[Gergely Harvesto: There isn't!]] Then how do you think it can be explained that inflation has tripled throughout the European Union, in all Member States? The EU average inflation has more than tripled from 2021 to 2022, to mean EU inflation. There is only one reason for this: there has been no change in the European economy other than sanctions. The sanctions increased the price of energy and pushed inflation to the sky. It's that simple. If you deny it, you do it for a reason because you represent the position of the pro-war. Szabó Timea also talked about the energy issue. He said that Hungary has to part with Russian energy. This is a vitrigli American position, and we can see that all of Europe has done so. And what was the result? The fact that Europe now buys LNG from America at five times the price. It is no coincidence that in 2021 the profits of LNG, liquid gas trading companies, were EUR 8.5 billion, which increased to several times in 2022, to EUR 35 billion. [[Gergely Harvestó: How much was the benefit of Gazprom?]] This shows that this war actually has winners, most of all energy companies. You are now suggesting that we replace one dependence with another. We don't think that's the right thing to do. In our opinion, Hungarian energy independence can only be achieved if we stand on more feet. By replacing one dependence with another, it does not mean energy independence, it means dependence, one dependence is replaced by another. So, ladies and gentlemen, the thing is that there is no other choice: either they are on the side of peace or on the side of war. That's what you've decided. You're on the side of the war, which is why you don't support this statement, so I'd say you're war-fested. [[Dr. László György Lukács: You and the Putin faction!]] And if it were up to your words, Hungary would have been involved in this war by now. They say that Szabó Timea and Gergely Arató say that you are on the side of peace. Compared to this, your candidate for Prime Minister made it clear from the beginning. [[Gergely Harvester: It was yours, not ours, it's been revealed ever since!]] That he's carrying guns. Szabó Timea's party partner, Bence Tordai, said literally that it would be time for Hungary to start direct arms shipments. That's your position. If you're carrying guns, you're not on the side of peace, you're on the side of war. You should know that I agree with Zsolt Gréczy in one respect. You said you couldn't have fun with the national interest. I agree with him. Only when you say you need to transport weapons into this military conflict [[Zsolt Gréczy: I didn't say that!]] then they're not just having fun with national interest [[Zsolt Gréczy: I didn't say that!]] They also tell us because the supply of weapons poses a specific security risk for Hungary. When you're talking about transporting guns, you're not on the side of peace, you're on the escalation of war. The fact is that those who are today on the side of the war and support further sanctions, further arms shipments, certainly risk the outbreak of the Third World War. I think that this clearly goes against the Hungarian national interest. So I ask you, for once, to ignore what you are being dictated to you from Brussels, to ignore the position you are expected to take in exchange for the dollars. [[Gergely Harvester: You're lying! Zsolt Gréczy: Prove it!]] For once, stand on the side of the Hungarian people! For this reason, for once, please really stand on the side of peace, not for further arms shipments, not for supporting and voting in favour of further sanctions, but for supporting the real peace and ceasefire, because this is the only way to secure Europe and Hungary in the long term. I therefore urge you once again to support this decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[13.10]]
u2023-03-07-68	Welcome, fellow Members. Our next speaker is Márton Gyöngyösi, MEP of Jobbik, who is speaking from the platform. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-07-69	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Today I am speaking to you primarily as a Hungarian patriot and European citizen. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Oh, my God!]] We Hungarians are all the heirs of St. Stephen, the 1948-49 and 1956 freedom fight. Szent István has designated the thousand-year journey of Hungarians, but since then we have had to protect our freedom from the oppressors several times. The civil revolution and freedom struggle of 1848 was the first and most important milestone in our nation's struggle. Then, a century later, in 1956, we had to take up arms again for our freedom, and our ancestors had to pay with their blood again against the oppressors to gain freedom. We Hungarians know well what it is to fight with slingshots, Molotov cocktails against the overpower of Russian invaders. One year ago, on 24 February 2022, Russia attacked Ukraine with armed forces. Since then, the Ukrainians have heroically defended their country against the occupying Russian troops. A thousand barricades indicate that despite the ruthless attacks of the aggressor, the civilian population, they fight to the end against the conquerors, the conquerors. But the Russian attack is not just for Ukraine, but for all of us who are members of the European Union and NATO, and we are citizens of these Member States and he says that you are no longer safe. And yes, everyone wants peace, but perhaps we Hungarians know better than anyone that not all peace is true peace. The Hungarian people wanted peace in 1956, peace, but not peace based on compromise and peace based on fear in their own country, but also freedom. The Hungarians did not need the servants of the oppressors, the communists, the peaceful peace of the communists, and the Hungarians also fought for the peace of freedom against the Russian invaders. That's why the brave ones raised the barricades, took up arms, and so many sacrificed their lives to gain this freedom, and they get this freedom. Unfortunately, at that time, we Hungarians finally received the peace of November 4th, the shameful peace of Russian invaders and traitors, the triumph of which was marked by gallows, gallows and mass graves, orphans and widows, and the memory of the freedom trampled into the mud and drowned in its own blood, even after the regime change, was slandered by the smugly smiling murderers and pro-peace comrades. The posterity has ruled since then, and it is now clear to everyone who the killers were and who the heroes were. And yes, that is why it is important for the Hungarian Parliament to speak in connection with the current Russian aggression in Ukraine, but it is even more important to make it clear that we Hungarians are in favour of the peace of freedom, of Europe and of freedom, for which our leaders have fought so much, because we are all the heirs of St. Stephen, of 1948 and 1956. Therefore, it must be clear to all of us who today, in 2023, are the aggressor killers and who are the heroes who defend their country. Not only because of our history, but as heirs of the Christian culture circle, we cannot side with the aggressor and be indifferent and indifferent to the victims. As a Roman Catholic, I should be glad that the Hungarian Prime Minister has recently been so familiar with the guidance and position of the Holy Father and the Vatican, but I fear that he is mistaken and even misleading the public when he talks about the identity between the two positions. According to Viktor Orbán, there were two of us left in the peace camp: Hungary and the Vatican. Well, the camp may be one, but the flag certainly doesn't: the flag of Orbán says "Peace!" In the Vatican, it's "Just Peace!" å What this means more closely, the Archbishop Gallagher, whom we can safely look at as the Vatican Minister for Foreign Affairs [[Nacsa Lawrence: Because it is!]] In particular, he expressed it, and it is worth quoting it in detail: "I think one of the tasks of the Holy See, if you like, is to try to keep hope alive, the dream of peace, but I think that the emphasis remains on resistance, military victory, and then we think about peace. I do not believe that peace will be the focus of this stage without the promotion of a military solution. We say that we should work for peace and work for just peace. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, And what is just peace, fellow Members? Quote follows:. The just peace would mean that the Russians would withdraw from the territory of Ukraine. Yes, peace would mean the end of hostilities, and certain negotiations would involve the creation of a peace treaty or, at least, a truce. This is, therefore, the Vatican's position, unlike István Simicskó, leader of the KDNP faction yesterday, and one of the authors of this proposal for a resolution, who said that there is no just peace, but a peace document. You lost your only and last ally, who was never really your ally. So I ask that you no longer refer to the Holy See and the Vatican. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yeah, you tell me.]] And if you are unable to take the following aspects from moral, Christian teaching, my honourable fellow Members, then consider a pragmatic interest-based aspect: on 15 de-cember 2021, more than two months before the launch of the Russian offensive, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent a draft agreement to the United States of America and NATO and then published a draft agreement setting out Putin's demand for the post-Soviet and holding on to the whole of the post-socialist region, i.e. Russian Imperial expansion, a direct target of aggression not only Ukraine, but also our country and the whole of Eastern Central Europe, that is, our country is the target of Russian imperialism. If this would not help you, I would like to indicate that hundreds of Transcarpathian Hungarians are fighting to protect their homeland under the Ukrainian flag. It is therefore also our moral duty to support Transcarpathian Hungarians in the struggle for their homeland, at least by not echoing the expected narrative of Moscow, my fellow Members, every day. Yes, listening to the annualist of my fellow Members, Viktor Orbán, and then a few days later, Putine, one wonders whether Viktor Orbán's speeches are written in Moscow or Putine in Budapest, perhaps there is a joint staff that will help both of them. [[Dr. Sigmond Brown Paul: What you're saying is frightening!]] So your proposal is the shameful peace of Russian invaders and traitors. This is Putin's peace, the peace of mass graves, which a European citizen and, above all, a Hungarian patriot can never support. This proposal for peace is not in the interests of the Hungarians, nor is it in the interest of the Russian gas dependency, as it costs four times the amount of gas that can be purchased in Hungary than anywhere else in Europe. It's all in Moscow and Putin's best interests. This proposal pushes us, Hungarians, even further away from European values, other European nations and Europe. With this proposal, you will isolate our country in the federal system we belong to and guarantee our security. [[13.20]] In fact, you want to drive Hungary out of the European Union. Huxit is also being prepared with this proposal [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You were on stage when they burned the flag! István Hollik: 15 years of saying it!]] To get rid of the rule of law requirements and rule until the end of the world with Russian help. They want to build a state of Vazallus from Hungary with Vladimir Putin's support. As heirs of 1956, we can quote only two words after peace as a message for ever about Hungarian-painted house walls: Russkik home! Long live the memory of 1956! [[He's showing me a flag with a hole in it.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK. An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2023-03-07-70	The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Károly Panczél. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to comment on the proposal for a resolution on the one-year anniversary of the Russian-Ukrainian war, which I call a pro-peace resolution proposal, in fact, only on its 6th point, as it deals with Transcarpathian Hungarians. Before I do this, let me tell you that I was actually surprised, shocked, that yesterday, when opposition parties, globalist and liberal left-wing parties responded to the agenda of Minister Péter Szijjártó, or just in the debate that was held today, they discovered the Transcarpathian Hungarians themselves. I congratulate you on this, because in recent years they, you, the globalist liberals, have described Transcarpathian Hungarians exclusively as Ukrainian electoral crooks, Ukrainians who take away their jobs from the Hungarians, their pensions, who should be deprived of the right to dual citizenship. Ferenc Gyurcsány announced that he would not only not support it, but also take it back. I would like to note that in this war situation, dual citizenship has saved lives in Transcarpathia, human lives. [[Dániel Z. Karpat takes the notary seat.]] You, who thought it was a waste of money, said and have repeatedly explained that it is unnecessary to spend money in Transcarpathia, to carry out a kindergarten construction program across the border, to build schools and to renovate churches, to give a salary supplement to Ukrainian citizens, who are Hungarian doctors, nurses working in health care, teachers, teachers, journalists, civil servants working in local governments. We gave this so that they could stay in their homeland and serve the Hungarians who live there. You considered these subsidies unnecessary. I congratulate you on your progress in realizing that the Hungarian nation does extend beyond the borders and that Hungarians also live in Transcarpathia. Dear House, I want to talk to you about the part of the nation that has suffered the most in our history in the Carpathian Basin. I would like to talk about the people of Rákóczi, who have remained Hungarian under the most difficult conditions for centuries. We know their history, they were members of the Hungarian Kingdom and part of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, they lived in Czechoslovakia, the Soviet Union, and today they are citizens of Ukraine. They survived that bloody XX. Company. They survived two world wars, two terrible dictatorships, Gulag, a Malenki robot and the misery of the Soviet Union. I would like to note in brackets that even in the prison of the Soviet Union, they had more educational, cultural and mother tongue rights than in the current Ukraine. The question today is whether we see the final hours of Hungarianism in Transcarpathia, or we hope that after an early truce and peace there will remain a strong seed in Transcarpathia, in a similar way to the South-Hungarian war, where there is a strong seed, where today it is good to be a Hungarian, where there is a parliamentary representation of Hungarians. We hope that in such a future we will trust both the Transcarpathian and Ukraine. Dear House, This is a long war waged by the United States and Russia in Ukraine, which destroys Ukraine, destroys Hungarians there, destroys Romanians, Ruthenians, Poles and Bulgarians there, and destroys this war, including Europe, the European Union. And Europe today does not listen to reason, does not listen to sound; there is war hysteria. There's a lot of competition in sending out weapons that can kill people's lives. Dear Parliament, Last April, the elections decided not only on domestic politics in Hungary, but also on Hungary's need to stay out of the war. The then left-wing globalist alliance from DK to Momentum, through Dialogue to Jobbik, gave vague answers to the question of war. The only thing we've been able to squeeze out is, if NATO says so, we'll send weapons and soldiers. The voters clearly said no to that, saying no to the drift. CHAPTER XX We've had enough of the drift in the century. There were two losing world wars in Hungary, two terrible dictatorships, all of which we had to suffer, we learned from it, and Hungary does not wish to drift into war with great powers, they cannot take us to war, we must stay out of this, that is our clear position. Dear Parliament, But unfortunately, the nation is involved in this war. Our country is not, but through Transcarpathian Hungarians, the Transcarpathian nation is experiencing the horrors of war as citizens of a country under attack by an aggressor. They experience uncertainty, blackouts, anti-aircraft alarms, insecurity, concern for conscripted men, eternal lack of men on the front lines, manhunt for men who are required. If we take seriously that the most important task of a state and thus of the Hungarian state is that the nation should remain, prosper, thrive, and thrive, and acknowledge the fact that the nation extends beyond the borders, then one of the most important tasks of the Hungarian state is to care for Transcarpathian Hungarians, and one thing that can help them today in their survival and prosperity: if there is a truce, then there will be peace and peace in Ukraine. This guarantees the survival of Transcarpathian Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, It is worth recalling Hungary's good neighbourly measures before the war. We have consistently supported Ukraine's integration into the European Union and the issue of visa waiver, until the adoption of the new Education Act. We have decided on a EUR 50 million tied aid loan for the development of border infrastructure. In the fights in eastern Ukraine, we treated the injured Ukrainian soldiers in Hungary in 2015 and 16 and 17 and continued their rehabilitation. The children of Ukrainian soldiers who died or were injured in the war were given a holiday in Hungary. From there, from the gunfire, we brought children from Eastern Ukraine to relax in Hungary. In the Transcarpathian immunization program we delivered vaccines worth more than 600 million HUF between 2017 and 2023 in order to prevent the virus. We have completed the renovation and expansion of several health and educational institutions, including those used by Ukrainians. We contributed to the creation of the statue of Ukrainian poet Taras Sevchenko in Beregszás, supported the creation of this, and the Ukrainian department started at the University of Nyíregyháza. Dear House, After 24 February 2022, a year ago, Hungary has helped Ukraine for more than HUF 35 billion. Based on the information provided by the charities, we sent a total of 3600 tons of donations across the border, worth more than HUF 8 billion. [[13.30]] Since the war took place, nearly 1.5 million refugees have indeed arrived in Hungary, and we have also provided for them. As a result of the national cooperation for the Transcarpathia of the Bridge, the amount of donations exceeded HUF 1 billion. We offer assistance to Ukraine for a value of EUR 37 million: in Zahalci settlement we support the reconstruction of a school, in the municipality of Szinyak, the local health clinic, in other places we support the reconstruction of a post office and local government room. The Prime Minister's Office has provided HUF 1.5 billion in humanitarian aid to deal with the humanitarian crisis. The Hungarian Ecomenic Relief Organization received a HUF 580 million grant from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Human Resources carried medicines and medical supplies worth HUF 230 million, and the support of the agricultural portfolio brought sunflowers, corn and potato seed tubers to the country. We are talking about billions of forints. Dear House, Despite the continuous gestures and support of Hungary, Ukraine has adopted a number of laws restricting the existing rights of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia. It is a very important issue of national policy, since the law on education, language law, public education law and minority law put Hungarians in worse situations in Transcarpathia. The leaders of Transcarpathian Hungarian advocacy organizations are subject to continuous atrocities, procedures and even secret service interrogations. The publication of articles, interviews, posts that undermine the leaders, organizations and Hungarian government of Transcarpathia and you are certainly familiar with the shameful removal of the Turul statue of Munkács, the anti-Hungarian measures in the Munkács region, the removal of Hungarian flags, inscriptions or the firing of school directors. The most pressing problem of the national minority today, besides the war in Transcarpathia, is the educational law adopted in 2017, which will enter into force in September this year, on the basis of which the fifth class of the former Hungarian language schools will have to switch to mixed language education, and the national minority school has already been legally abolished by the 2020 Public Education Act. And as we know, with EU support, the Ukrainian state will now be waving thousands of euros in front of the family of ethnic students to sign up to Ukrainian schools, and such support will be given to those who do not choose their native language education. I would like to tell you once again that you can do this with EU support. Therefore, for Hungary, Ukraine and Transcarpathian Hungarians, it is of the utmost importance that there should be peace as soon as possible. Hungary is interested in making neighbouring Ukraine a sovereign, balanced, democratic rule of law, where national minorities, including the Hungarian minority of Transcarpathia, can live safely and peacefully in their homeland. Dear House, Ukraine and the European Union aim to become EU Member States in Ukraine. I would like to draw the attention of both pro-government and opposition representatives, so that we will not forget this when negotiations begin, let us not forget that Ukraine's journey to the European Union leads through Hungary, that it must be demanded there and then, and that the survival and prosperity of the minorities and indigenous minorities living there must be ensured. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-72	Our next speaker is Congressman István Apáti of the Group of Our Hungary. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, This is an extremely important and sensitive topic and debate, and let us state right here at the beginning that nothing is black and white, only black or white, it is not true that folktale heroes are facing the devils of hell, and that evil and good would fight their old or ancient battle here. A lot of things are not what they appear to be at first, and disinformation, deception, misinformation are very destructive weapons on both sides. Many of our countrymen, many Hungarian voters, lack basic information to see this extremely complicated issue in its entirety. We can say that there is, in practice, a Russian-Ukrainian war going on here formally, but practically in Ukrainian territory, in Ukraine, Russia and the United States of America are fighting a war, or Russia, or the United States of America and its Western allies, are fighting a new war to determine the position and positions of the new world order in the long term. Nothing is expensive for the United States of America in this war. They fight very heroically to the last drop of Ukrainian and Transcarpathian Hungarian blood, they fight very heroically to the last of the Ukrainian and Transcarpathian Hungarian soldiers! Thousands of miles away from their home country, they managed to start a war again, which means they have a very serious role to play since 2013. This may not be said by the pro-government representatives, which could lead to awkward or international foreign affairs, diplomatic debates, but the Hungarian Movement does not speak with it, we have not spoken with it, and we will not speak with it again. So the fact that this war broke out, that it has come to this point, that what we know on the basis of the history books, or we have seen on the screen, is practically the daily bloody reality in Ukraine, that Russia and the United States of America are responsible for that, both of them. The responsibility of the CIA, the various US secret services, even in criminal terms, which, of course, will never be accounted for, is well known from the events of 2013, since they accept only what they consider to be democratic. This is similar to what I would suggest, by the way, that we are now going through a period of party name changes called Jobbik's Jobbik-Conservatives, and it would be just as timely if I could continue my parentheses comment if the Dialogue changed its name to, say, monologue, because apart from their own opinion, they are not interested in anything else in the world, all opinions other than theirs are extremist, Nazi, fascist, racist, and I do not know yet, we and we also see that now the MSZPs have become patriotic social democrats. [[Intercoms.]] So it's a really special spring, but it's a parentheses closed. We do our best not to take a pro-Russian position, not a pro-Ukrainian, not a pro-American, but a biased and characteristically pro-Hungarian position. Of course, this includes the truncated home, the situation of the mother country, and it includes the interests of our Transcarpathian national brothers as far as possible the representation and representation of our position to the fullest extent. I have very much missed the comments of all the left-wing factions, all their representatives so far, that they are less or less affected by what we say the Ukrainian state did with minorities before the war started. And then let's make another clarification here. When I say these harsh words, I don't accidentally confuse some of the main characters and main clowns of the Ukrainian military and political leadership with the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian people; there is a very serious difference between the two. What have you done to the Russian minority? What have you done with a minority of other nationalities, not Ukrainian speaking? How the Hungarians of Transcarpathia were trampled on their individual and collective freedoms! And then there is this cynical, brazen and war criminal attitude on their part that those who cannot learn in their mother tongue, who cannot learn in Hungarian schools, are good for dying on the front in a war and that is not right by Congressman Gyöngyösi, which, by the way, has nothing to do with them, in the world. They're good for cannon fodder, fighting in the ranks of units with the greatest loss of living power, touching them on the streets, according to the left, doesn't belong to the category of war crimes. Isn't it a war crime to blow up the North Stream, a crime against humanity or a crime against humanity? ! Who was in your best interest, fellow Members? Don't be a cat, don't speak out of turn to the United States of America. We don't have objective evidence. It must have been in the interest of the United States of America or one of its Western allies. [[13.40]] And I'm not saying this because I'm a pro-Russian, or our country movement would be pro-Russian, you should think with common sense. You must not only watch but also see, fellow Members. The best weapon is common sense, not artificial intelligence, but natural intelligence, the common sense of the Satmar peasant, the common sense of common Hungarian peasants and their brains. You don't have to go in Russian, Ukrainian or American. Notice, our entire history has taught us that we can only rely on ourselves. We're on our own, we're on our own, nobody else's. What else was our history about? That our good deeds didn't, never, only our mistakes and possible sins had a price. They forget how many sacrifices this country has made in the last more than a year, how many hundreds of thousands of refugees we have taken in, we have done the right thing, regardless of origin; how much different help we have brought, we have helped the Ukrainian people regardless of origin, religion, whatever. We did the right thing, we had a fundamental moral obligation. Yet somehow the Western powers forget this, yet somehow the United States of America forgets it. And yes, all war crimes committed by the Russians should be punished, reprisals should be punished, and inexorable crimes in criminal terms. It would be very right, but it is also right to say that the war crimes committed by the Ukrainians should also be retaliated, where appropriate, the perpetrators of crimes against humanity committed before 24 February 2022 should also be held accountable because they are credible and thus round, and the war crimes committed by the United States of America should also be punished. How many U.S. presidents could actually be in prison for life, my fellow Members? ! Iraq, Afghanistan, Yugoslavia in the '90s. Can they do that? Are they allowed to attack countries on the basis of false or falsified intelligence reports in the context of the export of democracy just because they do not like the religious, political and other arrangements there? ! Can they have anything because they're the United States of America? ! And the war crimes they committed will practically never come to light. Who has used nuclear weapons in the history of mankind, say, in the last seventy, eighty or a hundred years? Not the United States of America? ! Because he couldn't stand being attacked. An attack that they have committed for decades against other nations, other countries, other armies, other targets. They can have no consequences! [[Dr. István Tiba occupies the notary seat.]] So when we talk about war crimes and their consequences these are very serious issues, let us be fair, and then let us be equal in standards. Because that son of a bitch is a racist, and that stinking Nazi who makes a difference between sacrifice and victim or perpetrator and perpetrator based on origin or power position, besides being a coward. It doesn't depend, of course, on a naive suggestion on my part that someone is held accountable or not, which political side he belongs to, or what kind of political wind or strength he has, of course, depends on that. Several Presidents of the United States of America would never see the day if we were to apply the provisions of international law literally. And I know that it will be much easier for me to say it as a right-wing opposition representative, because 103 years ago, this country was pushed back from its medium power status, from its medium power status in Europe, to countries with weak or low power status, which is due, among other things, to those who now condemn us with so much heat. However, let me also whip the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP, and let me refer back to what László Toroczkai, President of the Hungarian Movement, raised an hour and a half ago about the situation, ladies and gentlemen, with the statement made the other day by the Slovak Minister of Defence. [[István Hollik: They answered.]] Then I would consider it an honor if anyone else, or Mr Hollik, or anyone else, would respond to the fact that there is indeed a training of Ukrainian soldiers in Hungary, and I would add that we have released weapons shipments in prison. Because it's a life-threatening game in the strictest sense of the word. I don't want to joke, but it's Russian roulette that we say something on one side, that we're shutting ourselves down, we're really neutral anyway, we should really be neutral, we should stay here, and there's no training, we won't let guns through, and then we'll somehow pass bypasses, back roads somewhere around Borsod-Abaúj Zemplén county or maybe other points. There's no need for that. The best we can do is get into the hardest possible situation. So when the question of war crimes and aggression is so strongly criticised about the left here, let us look back on the aggressions of the last few years and decades, and then we really should be equal in standards and not double standards, as you do. It would be naive to think that Russia is going to leave areas that it has acquired with amazing material and human sacrifices. I didn't say it was right, I just said that it was naive to demand that they leave Crimea, and that it was said somewhere, someone said during the debate, perhaps even Mr Simicskó Group Leader, that at present 18 percent of Ukraine's territory was occupied by the Russians. Let alone one percent, they won't give up for a square inch. I just told you to look back on our own history, and we were on our own, and that's the part where I said that. Then let's look back on the history of the Russians. Never in life, unless they're forced out of there by military force, they're not getting out of there. And we know that Putin would also be unsuited to a retreat or self-destruction of such defeat, and that we should remain in political reality before next year's elections in Russia. Let's not pretend like we're political amateurs. Let's not pretend we don't see reality. The Russians aren't gonna get out of there. A bargain or a fairer word, in the noble sense of the word, may lead to peace, ladies and gentlemen. Anyone can call on the Russians to withdraw, they won't leave when hundreds of thousands of their soldiers have died, we don't know how much, because continuous disinformation, false reports, can't be seen clearly in the sea. In fact, they are about to launch the spring campaign before Western aid reaches the Ukrainians. But while we are at it, Ukrainians are not too lucky to have such a president as Volodimir Zelensky, who has recently danced in women's clothes, who, of course, misses the front line, but who is now virtually completely surrounded by Bahmut can sacrifice tens of thousands of soldiers, including many children aged 15-16 and older people over sixty. It doesn't matter to him. And then let's not just watch. Let's see. What is Volodimir Zelensky's occupation? He's an actor and he plays a role. He plays a role; he's a well-paid character, I add. Of course, you don't have the guts to fight on the front, to be a credible actor or a credible actor, but it does. He's not fighting on the front either. By the way, Mr Simicskó expressed himself: those who start, trigger wars, they obviously do not fight themselves, their sons do not fight, and their children do not fight. If they fought, they wouldn't start wars. It's not black or white, ladies and gentlemen. Let us stay out of the war, let us give all humanitarian aid, let us give all the help that exists to those coming from Ukraine, let us stand up for the Transcarpathian Hungarians, although our means and opportunities are very limited, because the greatest stand would be to prevent them from taking them to the front to die in a war that they have nothing to do with, because this is not their war, no matter where we watch or try to stick it. And last but not least, let me respond here to the last speech by the lead speaker before me, because there is a limit to everything. Mr Gyöngyösi, I am sorry that there is no moral basis here to raise the 56 hole flag here and point it in the Chamber. [[István Hollik: That's for sure. Nacsa Lőrinc: Finally we agree.]] when he started last year's elections with the alliance with his spiritual successors and heirs. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Antal Tiny!]] The ones who fought with the enemy back in the day. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-07-74	Ladies and gentlemen, There are now two-minute speeches. [[To Dr. László Lukács György and Dr. István Apáti:]] If you allow Members to make their speeches, we will be able to continue the debate. Member Zsolt Gréczy of the DK Group has applied, and I will give you the floor in two minutes. Here you go. [[13.50]]
u2023-03-07-75	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, I'm trying to sort some things out. One: the story of the Turulszobor was mentioned here. The Turul statue was restored by the Gyurcsány government, and Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány personally attended the inauguration ceremony. The fact that it was taken off was already during the Orbán government. So much for the importance of representing Hungarian nationality. [[Nacsa Lőrinc:.23 million Romanians!]] Another: it is in the text that Ukraine has the right to self-defense. But if they don't get guns, how do they protect themselves? So it's possible to say at the same time with one of our mouths, that there should be peace and that they should protect themselves, but how? Against the Russian outnumber? Your personnel, your weapons, everything? What Pharisee attitude is that? How should a country defend itself? Now imagine the Russians coming in in 56 and all the neighbouring countries say that Hungary has the right to self-defense and defend itself as best you can. It's not okay! [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's what the West said!]] In this debate, it was also said that Russia, the Russian Empire, was just like this, and they started in 1849 because it was in their political interest, and in 56 too. I'm sorry, I can't accept this. I also protest against Russian intervention in 1849 and protest against 1956. The people of Hungary support freedom, the people of Hungary must represent the position of NATO and the European Union. And by the way, I am very sorry, Mr Secretary of State, because, as an ambassador to NATO, it would be quite difficult for NATO not to do anything in the case of a country under attack to represent it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zoltán Demeter: He is not a NATO member! Nacsa Lőrinc: And we don't talk about Antal Tiny.]]
u2023-03-07-76	From the Fidesz Group, Congressman Barna Zsigmond applied for two minutes. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-03-07-77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Stop fighting! That's kind of the way they say it to us. So the ceiling won't break. I would like to respond to the words of Congressman Gyöngyösi. So it's amazing, you come into this House, you lecture us, you lie all over the place, and you accuse me of pro-Russianism, the man who made the most serious anti-Semitic speech in this House. And remember, he was the one who went to election observation in 2014 [[Lőrinc Nacsa: László Lukács didn't talk about this either!]] in the People's Republic of Donetsk and Luhansk, which is not recognised by the EU, and for which it was banned from Ukraine. And he was the one who actually approved of Crimea's annexo. And it was right to say, Mr Abbot, that he really wasn't worthy of the legacy of a flag with a hole in it. The Pongráz family also called on him to do so. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Andrew Pongratz! When they don't even speak Hungarian properly!]] András Pongráz, who used to cut Stalin Statue with flame cutters in '56 and urged Jobbik to stop using this punchy flag. That's all I wanted. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-78	Mr Róbert Dudás is coming from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-79	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I think we can make one thing clear that everyone wants peace. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Unfortunately, no.]] There is one thing we have to decide here, my dear fellow Member Nacsa, that for ten seconds you cannot stop without yelling, we have to decide who wants real, just peace, and who is trying to shout into the space of communication alone. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, They have no allies left in Europe! One remains, the Vatican, which, in this situation, does not take its opinion on this issue. Because what does the Vatican say? That it is not merely peace that is needed, but just peace. And what's the difference between the two? I'm sure you'll all remember it, and you'll all experience as a blow to the fate of the Hungarian nation, 4 June 1920, Trianon. How did you make peace there? They're knitted. Did they do something fair? No, they didn't make a fair deal. Anyone who says that all we need is peace, not just peace, legitimizes Trianon, legitimizes the Trianon peace dictatorship and betrays the Hungarian nation. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: Nana! There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] What is needed is not just peace, but just peace! [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-07-80	István Hollik of the KDNP Group has applied. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-81	Thank you. First of all, the glory to Imre Steindl for building Parliament on such a massive basis, and that is why the ceiling did not break when Zsolt Gréczy mentioned Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Hungarians across the border in a context that Ferenc Gyurcsány was standing up for Hungarianism across the border. You should be kind enough to ask the Hungarians across the border about this, honourable Member. But you asked, "How can peace be?" Congressman, you now represent the position of the pro-war politicians here and therefore do not support the pro-peace resolution, who said the following, for example, the German Foreign Minister: we are at war with a plural with Russia. They already think the West is at war. In fact, several pro-war European politicians say that this war will end if we defeat Russia. How do they defeat a nuclear power if not through World War II? Dear fellow Member, You're talking about peace, but you're supporting weapons shipments. You can't do it with arms transport for peace! Let it be clear that your position in this regard is untenable. So anyone who supports arms transport and talks about his war with Russia is putting him at risk by escalating this war. In other words, your position, whether you like it or not, draws a war cross on the brows of Hungarians and especially Hungarians in Transcarpathia. Take note of that. That is why we ask you to give up the position that is dictated to you from abroad and to finally adopt the pro-peace resolution, and to stand by the Hungarian national interest. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-82	Our next two-minute comment is Congressman Dócs Dávid Mi Hazank. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-83	Madam President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. During this debate, we have heard from both political sides, from the left led and marked by Gyurcsány, and from the sides of the governing parties, from a pro and versus multiple positions, and you, my fellow members of the government, with this resolution proposal, have said a lot of truth and support, but they have left out a lot of things. For this reason, I and the Mi Hazan faction have made an amendment that we hope you will be able to support and shift things from it in the spirit of consensus. We must protect the interests of the Union, not Ukraine, not America and not Russia in the first place; we must protect Hungarian interests in the first place, which is why we have heard from several pro-government representatives what losses are suffered by Transcarpathia and our national brothers living in Transcarpathia, but there has not been effective progress and action on the part of the Hungarian State and the Hungarian Government so that this can no longer happen and that we can protect them sufficiently. For us, as for all nations, the protection of our own is the most important, therefore, using the idea of Dezső Szabó, because all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, we want to protect the Hungarian minority living in Transcarpathia primarily in this military conflict, because despite living far from the front itself, they are in great danger, because they are still being hunted in Transcarpathia and they are not fleeing our countrymen, and they are being taken to the meat grinder, to the front row for cannon fillings. We think that the most important thing is to protect Hungarian lives, and ultimately we should demand that the European Union not support the war in our neighbourhood with billions and weapons, but defend the Hungarian minority. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-07-84	We still have three more two-minute applications, but I would like to inform my fellow Members that I will be able to speak to each of them in the next round, as one representative of each group has already spoken in this round. This brings us back to the list of speakers that have been announced. In the framework of this, it will be Mrs Boglárka Elijah, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-85	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I do not wish to respond specifically to the untruths from the left-wing benches, because I believe that it was rightly reflected in the response of the speakers to their own factions, not only in the absence of their presence, but also in the lack of recognition that can be expressed in applause - even in those benches, these speeches have not been recognised. And here we can think specifically of DK's speech. [[14.00]] For over a year now, instead of the brains and the heart, the emotion and the morale, the dialogue and the negotiating table in Europe, Russia has attacked Ukraine with military aggression, cold stoves, existential vulnerability, psychic beggars, helpless relatives, desperate despair every day, even in these moments. I can see in my mind the faces of wives who meet the harshness of the front line with tears in their eyes. The eyes of the elderly, who know that they may have to close their eyes to eternal sleep before they can see their departed loved ones again. Infants and young children who, through hardships, weep to their graves. Transport of weapons is not a solution. I would also like to send a message to the Member, Zsolt Gréczy, who has left. Dear House, More than a year ago, the Russian-Ukrainian war began, with thousands, tens of thousands of dead, missing, body and soul wounded and millions of refugees. If necessary, we will say it a hundred times, if not enough, a hundred times: we condemn Russia's aggression, because no country can attack an independent sovereign state next door. We recognise Ukraine's right to self-defense and support its territorial integrity, and we are also committed to peace because we do not want more innocent people to be victims of war. We don't want Hungarian people to suffer, we don't want Europe to go further under the weight of war. The transport of weapons is not a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, As István Simicskó, Head of the Group, said clearly that there are those responsible for the start of the war, there are those who will work for the continuation of the war, and they will have to bear responsibility for it. And what we want to encourage, we want everyone to argue for peace, we want everyone to work for it because the solution is not to pour more weapons on the fire. The only solution is peace, and a truce is peace. Dear House, Today in Brussels there are politicians who, after ten unsuccessful sanctions packages, do not want to see that sanctions policy and the transport of weapons are not the solution. On the other hand, Guy Verhofstadt says that Europe must do everything in its power to support Ukraine, whether with weapons, training or sanctions. But I could also quote Klára Dobrev, sitting on the shadow chair, who previously stated that he was not satisfied with the sanctions. That is not what we Hungarians are experiencing. The sanctions did not bring the end of the war. On the other hand, they had high prices and energy shortages, and we are not alone in our position. Ladies and gentlemen, In Europe, other governments than the Hungarian government did not have the courage to ask people whether sanctions worked? The Hungarian people have already sent a clear message twice in the past year. First during the parliamentary elections, then during the national consultation. The Hungarian people, standing on the ground of common sense, spoke and sent a message in the voice of wisdom. Thank you for that. Dear House, As my fellow Member István Hollik pointed out, American oil producers have made more money over the past few decades than in the history of the country's slate revolution. Shell has made the biggest profit in its 115-year history, and Western oil companies have closed with 125 percent annual growth. And along with this Russian energy company, they fattened their extra profit to a record size. Meanwhile, many in Europe are also pleased that thanks to the good winter, they did not have to bring out candles to warm their homes. We all experience: the energy prices have dropped all over Europe, they have become almost priceless, but with a joint effort and protection of the rent reduction, the Hungarian government supports Hungarian families on average by HUF 181 thousand per month. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me finally mention in a few words the assistance that we have given Ukraine. The Hungarian people once again proved that if there is a problem, they can count on us. We supported Ukraine with medical devices, respirators, medicines, food donations, fuel and ambulances. We've taken care of the wounded and their rehabilitation. In the transport of war refugees, MÁV provided free travel opportunities. The National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection helped with vehicles. Our country's border crossing points have been operating and functioning at full capacity. We support all organisations that help those fleeing Ukraine. And the Hungarian government also created the conditions that the Ukrainian national minority advocate said not weeks ago, but last Monday, because this session started last Monday, and I also recommend to the attention of MEP Zsolt Gréczy that the Ukrainian national minority self-government can launch the first self-reserved Ukrainian minority supplementary language education school. I would ask my fellow Members, please also those who did not support last year's pro-peace resolution in order to now support the resolution that we have tabled. Support peace instead of arms and support the need to call for a ceasefire instead of sanctions. Please support this, all those on the side of peace. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-07-86	The next announced speaker was Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-87	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, Let's just say again why we're here today and why we're arguing. We've filed a pro-peace resolution for the one-year anniversary of the Russian-Ukrainian war. This terrible catastrophic war has been going on for over a year, and every minute that this is extended is bad for Europe, bad for Ukraine, bad for Russia, and, most importantly, in our position, bad for Hungary. That is why we have submitted a pro-peace resolution, and let it be quite clear at the beginning: whoever supports this pro-peace resolution, the pro-peaceist who rejects it, is pro-war. This must be said, and it is worth speaking directly in this regard, honourable Members. I would like to respond to the shameful words of Martin Gyöngyösi. He, of course, thought he would speak in the European Parliament, because that is where MEPs come up with such meaningless speeches. This Hungarian Parliament needs more, Mr President. We heard that Jobbik changed his name, and now they're Jobbik-Conservatives. JK, that's just one letter from DK, so Jobbik's on the right track. We wish them good luck on this trip. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Fidesz changed its name three times.]] I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that, according to Momentum's custom, he has not, as usual, taken part in such an important debate. It did not participate in the debate on amending the budget for 2023, did not participate in the debate on the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO and did not participate in the debate on the one-year anniversary of the Russian-Ukrainian war on the pro-peace resolution. They do not participate in debates on foreign policy and internal policy issues which are fundamentally affecting Hungarians, where they should represent the position of the Hungarian people. They have voters, fewer and fewer, but there are. The fact is, my fellow Members, that what Momentum is doing is shameful, that they do not go to work and exclude themselves from political debates and joint decisions. I would like to say, Mr Gréczy, that when you talk about Transcarpathian Hungarians, you should remember that you said just a year and a half ago that we should not give vaccination to people from across the border and that you should take care of them only Romania and Ukraine and Slovakia. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Did I say that? Summon it. I never said that!]] And what do we think we're doing? That's what you said! And what do we think of giving vaccines to Hungarian communities across the border? Even his own allies condemned him for this sentence, honourable Member, so don't take the Hungarians across the border to their mouths, because they can only get bad from you. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I never said that. You're lying!]] [[14.10]] The fact is, honourable Member, that when you try to identify with 1956, while self-flying in every sense with the heirs of Antal Apró on the weekends and having a party and a forum throughout the country, you spend these weekends and these political events with the spiritual heirs of Antal Apró and the actual heirs of Antal Apró, I think you should be a little more modest in this regard. Let's take a look at what Márton Gyöngyösi said from what point of view should be appreciated. Márton Gyöngyösi is the president of that party, and he was standing on the stage where the European Union flag was burned, and now he thinks he is the loudest pro-sanctionist and, in his sense, a europeer politician. Márton Gyöngyösi is the politician who, at the invitation of the Russians, arrived in Donetsk and Luhansk County as Russian pro-election observers. After being expelled from Ukraine for this, he now says that we must take a stand against the Russians and say that we are Russian friends. The Russians were invited to join the separatist regions as an election observer in 2014, my fellow Members. The fact is that we should recommend a spinal doctor to Mr President, a straight spine would be needed, and it would be easier to look the electorate in the eye. There is this terrible war, and after that, you are constantly saying pro-war, pro-war texts and voting for pro-war texts in the European Parliament. Under the leadership of Klára Dobrev, all pro-war statements and all pro-war proposals for decisions on increasing arms shipments and escalation were voted in the European Parliament [[Zsolt Gréczy: Viktor Orbán pro-sanctionation!]] Klára Dobrev and Sándor Rónai. Sándor Rónai said... Zsolt Gréczy said that DK never said anything about carrying weapons. Of course he did. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where?]] Sándor Rónai said [[Zsolt Gréczy: Summon!]] that weapons should be transported to Ukraine [[Zsolt Gréczy: Summon it exactly!]] because he is ashamed that the other Western countries are transporting and Hungary is not transporting. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You're lying!]] The thing is, you guys would have sent a live force to the front if it were up to you. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where did I say that?]] Your Prime Minister's Candidate [[Zsolt Gréczy: That was yours!]] clearly stated: arms shipments... Zsolt Gréczy campaigned alongside him, please, fellow Members. Started with the DK logo and started with Jobbik's logo and the Szabó Timea logo, the Márki-Zay Péter, who said that weapons must be delivered and, if necessary, intervened with live power. If we look at the last year... I understand you want to wash yourselves out of this now. Let's look at the last year and look at your statements. You have constantly urged sanctions, constantly urged arms shipments, despite the fact that through Hungary they can only pass through the Transcarpathian region and the Transcarpathian county to Ukraine, putting the Hungarians of Transcarpathia at risk, and constantly pushing for entry into the war and escalation. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot suddenly be wolves in sheep's clothing here. Anyone who does not support this resolution proposal is pro-war, it must be said because it is the truth. And when you say that this is a Putin pro-Russian resolution and so on, it should be clear that anyone who does not vote for this resolution is expressing in their non-voting that they do not agree with the point of condemning Russia as the aggressor, we condemn Russian aggression; we do not stand in favour of standing up for Ukraine's right to self-defense; we do not stand in favour of helping Transcarpathian Hungarians; we do not stand in favour of the government continuing humanitarian aid shipments. You know, honourable Member, since you've brought him here, Congressman Arató and Szabó Timea have brought the terrible events in Bucsa, do you know which government in Bucsa is building a school, a hospital, a post office and a municipal office? I bet you don't know. It's Hungary. Hungary is still helping Ukraine and Ukraine, suffering from aggression, to build a hospital, a school, a post office and a municipal office in Bucsa. The biggest humanitarian action in Hungary's history has been taking place in these months, weeks and unfortunately for more than a year now. I have been to the border several times, in the constituency of Congressman Tilki, at the border crossing points, at the points of assistance. What can be seen there is that civilians, church charities, local governments, authorities work together to help refugees together, helping those in need with the greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history with the effective help of the government, with the authorities and bodies of the government and, of course, with government financial support to Ukraine, my fellow Members. The fact that you are usually trying to deny these facts and tell us that we are doing nothing is once again due to the Gyurcsány narrative that you are trying to perform here day by day. Let us be clear: we represent the Hungarian position. This isn't our war, and we need to stay out of this war. We must do everything at the same time, because this is our duty and our Christian duty, in the interest of peace, because the longer the war goes on, the longer there will be peace, the more people will sacrifice their lives in this terrible war, the more mothers will be without children, the more children will remain half orphaned or orphaned. This is a terrible humanitarian tragedy, my honourable fellow Member. We should be speaking in favour of peace, not in the European Parliament to vote in a serene manner for all anti-war statements and anti-war resolutions in the European Parliament, honourable Members. You have to be very, very clear about the positions, because this is not an issue where you can clear the boundaries like the left does. Very clearly, only two positions can prevail: a pro-peace and a pro-war. I'm very sorry that you chose the latter. There's still time to change that position. Not the words, the votes show the pro-peace. And when you always ask how exactly to imagine peace... we obviously know our place, and not a ten million-dollar Hungary will tell Russia and Ukraine and America what peace to imagine. We must do everything in our own strength and diplomatic efforts to ensure peace. What peace will be, and you have explained here that it is just, unfair, what peace will be like, must be decided at the peace negotiations by the parties involved, the great powers involved. The fact is that the path to peace talks begins at the first moment with the ceasefire, because if there is a ceasefire, honourable Member, and you do not understand this, then from the moment there is a ceasefire, no more lives will be lost. That is what should be understood, and not the exact nature of peace. We hope that peace will be one that will not restart the war, which can be accepted by all parties, which can be signed as soon as possible, but it may be a long trial. As the Prime Minister said, a hundred extra hours of peace talks are worth more than a shotgun. Let there be no need for peace negotiations for many hours, long days and long months, but until then, let there be peace, honourable Member, let there be a ceasefire, and so that we can achieve peace. You're jumping three steps ahead. You're not talking about the need for a ceasefire. You're talking about how we need as many weapons as we can now, the more we escalate the war. 35 countries have supplied weapons. How do you call that a local conflict? 35 countries carried weapons, from helmets to fighter jets soon enough, and then there will be living power, and the fact is that if 35 countries carry weapons, then we cannot call it local, local conflict, local war, it is escalated, and that is why the pro-war statements that my fellow Member Hollik has already referred to when they say that we are at war with Russia and we have to defeat Russia. Politicians on the European left are constantly, increasingly, driving public opinion into the pro-war position on a number of occasions. That is why this is happening to you, fellow Members. On the one hand, they are nervous because the dollar price has fallen, the forint has increased, the money you have received from abroad is worth less. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] On the one hand, they are nervous because their many very good friends and allies were taken from the European Parliament in handcuffs. Klára Dobrev's faction dwindled because they took a lot of people from Klára Dobrev's faction in handcuffs, corruption scandals, because they received foreign money in suitcases, just like you received foreign dollars in the election campaign. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You can't prove that in court!]] And who knows that ever since. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It costs a lot!]] There are posters that are... I'm sorry, Madam President, but the congressman is threatening me constantly. [[Dr. István Apáti laughs.]] That's his right, but that's who he is, that's who he is, we know he believes in violence. So, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that you have received these dollars. They may still be getting dollars, we don't know that, we hope that this will come out. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We never got one!]] But the thing is... Well, the DK logo, for example, was on those posters that were paid out of dollars, honourable Member. It had the DK logo on it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We never got any dollars, don't lie.]] I would rather ask the Member that just because foreign interests dictate this, he should try to look at what is happening through Hungarian glasses. [[14.20]] And for once, they will stand up for Hungary as vehemently as they stand up for all other countries! For once, look at things in the interests of Hungary, and not in the way that the European Parliament expects you to do what foreign clients expect of you, but at last act and vote in the interests of Hungary. Let us be clear once again: anyone who votes for this resolution is pro-peace, who does not vote for it is pro-war. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-88	Once again, two-minute speeches will take place. First of all, Congressman István Apáti, from our country. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-89	Thank you very much for the floor. I would immediately respond to Mr Gréczy's previous suggestion as to when there will be peace and what peace is just. Perhaps the best expression is that we need a sustainable and sustainable peace, and to do so, we need a compromise, a compromise, a bargaining process. The fact that it is just or unfair is largely determined by what perspective we look at it from, or by which party considers it less just or less unfair. To do that, Congressman Gréczy, we need President Zelensky to switch from the US and the CIA to the camouflage mode to the peace pigeon mode. And if this switch turns, maybe the processes are going in the right direction. If the United States also gives its blessing on what every normal person's heart desires to make peace, because a healthy, normal-minded person wants peace to come in ten minutes or a ceasefire in ten minutes; who says or acts in order to continue the bloody war is likely to be guided by sick or ulterior motives, but these conditions must be met. When President Biden and his administration think that from their point of view it is time to begin the ceasefire and then the peace process, then there is a chance for peace. Zelensky will not decide, it will be decided not between the Ukrainian leadership, but between the United States of America and Russia, which, by the way, is quite clear. In the long term, but not in the long term, but in the long term, we need a lasting and sustainable peace, which is in the interest of all normal, healthy people. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-07-90	Mr. Zsolt Gréczy, from the DK faction, is next in two minutes. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-91	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. First, I would like to point out to Mr Abbot that I was not the one who ranked peace in all sorts of ways, but my fellow Member Honky from Jobbik. Let us be clear that anyone who supports this resolution proposal is fidesz, but that does not necessarily make him pro-peace. Just because someone rejects it doesn't mean they're not. That's our position. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not like that!]] Well, that's what you think, and we don't. It has been said that there are name-changing parties. I note that Fidesz has had three names so far, as there were Fidesz, Fidesz-Hungarian Civil Party and Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association. Fideszes and KDNP politicians shed crocodile tears here for Hungarians across the border, but there was only one party who withdrew from Parliament when the word "Trianon" was heard, and it was called Fidesz. All of this happened in 1991. The name of Antal Tiny has been mentioned here. Now, let's talk about Zoltán Pokorni's daddy or his snitch daddy. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The Little Fork!]] The members of the MSZMP were swarming with various governments of Fidesz, from Sándor Pintér to Zsigmond Járai to István Stumpf, and I could tell a long list. They were all in the same party as Antal Tiny. So you agreed with Antal Tiny. Besides, grandchildren and children can't help their parents or grandparents. I propose to Fidesz and KDNP that they finally make the agent files public, which, by the way, is supported by all opposition parties, and you reject it as a single party. If anyone here doesn't want to face the past, it's you. I've got 20 more seconds, so I'd like to add that inflation has been said here and things like that. Well, inflation was a European record in Hungary before the war was even discussed. That's the economic truth. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-07-92	From the Fidesz Group, Mr Attila Tilki is next in two minutes. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I'm quoting. The Democratic Coalition, headed by Zsolt Gréczy, now advertises that the Gyurcsány government arranged for the Turul statue to be erected and that the Orbán government arranged to destroy it. Zsolt Gréczy's entry is not in a thank-you relationship with reality. The Gyurcsány government didn't arrange the restoration of Turul! This is said by Imre Pákh, who is not only a credible witness, but also a shaper of the events, because he and his family made the Turul statue, which was demolished by the Czech legionaries in 1924, re-established on the bastion of the castle of Munkács in 2008. Imre Pákh says:. As the Orbán government has nothing to do with the overthrow of Turul, it is due to the circles of the Ukrainian nationalist mayor of Munkács. Ferenc Gyurcsány did not appear at the inauguration of the Turul statue, nor did any other members of the government, but representatives of the historical Hungarian churches were present, and Zsolt Semjén was then opposition politician. Says Imre Pákh, whose family set up the Turul statue. However, a year earlier, Ferenc Gyurcsány Munkácson, the Prime Minister of Hungary, showed up, no one called him, he was an intruder. It was an exhibition in Munkács, and then, to my greatest surprise, Ferenc Gyurcsány appeared instead of President László Sólyom. No one called him, just dropped by, shocked by many. That's how we confront Mr. Gréczy with his lie. This article has already been published, you have read it [[Zsolt Gréczy shows his mobile phone: Here is the photo of Imre Pákh and Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] a recollection of the witness who was responsible for the statue. But you're lying unscrupulous here. You can't talk about credibility here! On behalf of the Transcarpathian Hungarians, I call for this orgas lie. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Here is the photo of Imre Pákh and Ferenc Gyurcsány together!]]
u2023-03-07-94	I would ask my fellow Members, if they would like to continue the debate, to do so in the framework of speeches and not in the context of yelling, and then we can hold the debate in a normal manner. We are now returning to the list of speakers that have been announced, and I am speaking to Mr Mihály Balla of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, I will try to return in my next thoughts to the proposal for a resolution, a political declaration, which is really about pro-peace. I would like to highlight a few details about the fact that if we look at the text and look at its different points, there are a number of things that can be referred to as cases that take place in the world. Point 4 states that the total freezing of gas and oil imports, the ban on the import of nuclear fuel would cause significant security of supply disruptions and even greater inflation in many Member States, including Hungary. It says that we are opposed to the scope of additional energy sanctions. The other day I came across the table of Visual Capitalist, an analysis company based in Vancouver, which specifically explains the extent to which countries bought fossil energy from the beginning of the war until 26 February. In the meantime, I'm going to make a parentheses comment that China is one of the biggest oil and gas buyers, but primarily an oil buyer of Russian extraction. They are talking about the need to shut down the taps, and then Russia will not be able to finance its war from the energy sector as a result of these sanctions. Well, we're talking about China starting building Power of Siberia 2, so the Siberian second line for oil and gas transport. This means, as many global analysts have shown, that the actual impact of sanctions on the Russian energy sector may not be realistic because Russia is making a 90 or possibly 180 degree turn in direction and will deliver oil and natural gas to India and China. According to this table, it is true that since then there have been changes in the second largest customer Germany, the third Turkey, the fourth India, the fifth Netherlands, the sixth Italy, the seventh Poland, the eighth France, the ninth Belgium, and then Hungary in the tenth place, although compared to the others, the purchase value, the amount, in a much more modest way in the framework. Although we are well aware that this more modest way affects Hungary's gas consumption in proportion to the population, as Hungary continues to depend on Russian gas and oil imports, as it covers a significant part of our energy and residential use. [[14.30]] And I think that when we talk about sanctions, and do not question the sanctions more than once, they question the fact that these sanctions may be inflation-enhancing ones, I think that yes, and perhaps when... and when we see which countries are still buying, although we know well that Hungary has requested an exception in these sanctions, they have asked for a special opportunity that, since we do not have maritime routes, we do not have any other pipelines, we should continue to have the possibility of this oil and gas, so I think that those arguments are not by me, not by the Fidesz fraction, but specifically by an analytical company that sanctions, energy sanctions, have an impact on market processes and economic processes that also amplify inflation. The other issue, in which I wanted to address it, was a number of global issues, global issues, or security policy issues that many people have been going around, and perhaps now, in the last half hour and an hour, we have heard a number of speeches where my fellow Members have highlighted that for Hungary, as this pro-peace resolution or resolution puts it, states that Hungary has been carrying out the greatest humanitarian action in its history since the war broke out, and there have already been a number of issues that have provided humanitarian assistance to the government. Let me tell you my own story, a little more personal story from the first days of the war. When the war started on 24 February last year, we took note of the news, the second news was that tens of thousands of refugees came to the Ukrainian-Hungarian border from Ukraine, on a daily basis, with tens of thousands of refugees, and crossing the border on a daily basis, with the help of the following settlements, the local authorities, with the help of government, NGOs and church organisations, helping them provide their care, unless otherwise, because everyone saw families coming over with a suitcase, especially women and children, coming across the border, and they found that there was a reception skills in Hungary, they were provided, the local authorities gave them hot food, local governments, if they had to, even gave them accommodation, and government and civil society organisations helped them to do so if they continued to travel. And that's what happened in the first days. And I am very proud that at that time in my own district and this is an example of how the Hungarians stood up for Ukraine, how they gave humanitarian aid, the 84 settlements in my constituency, and these could be listed, from Balassagyarmat to Nógrádcsap, Szendehely to Drégelypalánk, but I would not do it, because I would not want to leave anyone out of 84, it was a completely natural reaction on the part of the people, that they collected donations, the municipalities coordinated this, it was natural for the municipalities to send these donations to those municipalities, to those municipalities, to the border, to those refugees who came over the border, at least a food package of my fellow Members, a representative of the constituency, an elected representative of the electoral district, and then 68 percent of the children and women were elected, it was a thing that they did help the municipalities there to provide refugees, to the border, and the refugees, and the refugees who came over the border, at least a food package, and warm cloths, and, and, and, and the women, and they were able to put their rights in the border, and places in the same places, and places, and places in the border, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places in the same places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places, and places This example is what is in this pro-peace, and if the people who are in this, in this donation, in helping refugees, with the sudden help of refugees, we say that those who help quickly, will help twice, the one who gives quickly, will give twice... it was very important that people's attitude was very important, and people said it then, and I think that they have not changed their opinion since then that Hungary should be on the side of peace, and Hungary should not be directly involved in this war conflict. But let us add that aid, humanitarian aid, for everyone, for organisations and indeed for citizens, people had a decision that they knew well that they had to help, and that they had given it. In fact, I continue with the fact that refugees from Transcarpathia or Ukraine, the eastern part of Ukraine, who came to Nógrád County for a temporary or even longer period of time, in many settlements, local communities helped to get housing, so that children could go to school, where appropriate, so that they could eat, have a place to live, and actually some of them were accepted, because those who went on, because some who decided to go on, no longer needed help. So I think that if we look at the basic idea of this proposal and look at the points that it speaks for pro-peace, what is the point that we must help people, women, children, families and the elderly fleeing from Ukraine, the horrors of war, and I think it is a clear thing for everyone today. But perhaps it is also clear here in Hungary that basically there are a very large majority of those who say that, yes, peace is needed, and that Hungary should not participate directly in this war. So I think that if we consider all of these, and this is just a detail of all the points that have been made here, or was a comprehensive interpretation of what constitutes the war situation, the Russian aggression, basically those self-defense issues that are in the text, so if someone wants to misinterpret it, they really read it once, read it twice, there are these thoughts in particular. But let us also add that the Hungarian people, when they had work to do to help refugees, could always be expected. So I also ask my fellow opposition Members to consider their position, and when we want to put Hungary's attitude towards this war or the horrors of war in a political declaration, a declaration of parliament, then I ask that, yes, try to support this pro-peace in this situation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-96	Mr Zsolt Gréczy, from DK, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-03-07-97	Thank you very much. Now I would just like to add to my fellow Member Tilki that it is not worth falsifying the past. I have the article in front of me, Transparent [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Whoa, transparent! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] It's called, I quote, the title, "It was restored under Gyurcsány," and the Turul statue in Orbán was torn down again during the work. And you quoted how Mr Pákh wondered how Ferenc Gyurcsány got there, for this event and for the exhibition; one of the photos of this same article: Imre Pákh at the opening of the exhibition in Munkács with the Gyurcsány [[Mihály Balla and Dr Attila Tilki intervene.]] They're smiling with the Gyurcsány couple. [[14.40]] But in 2008, Ferenc Gyurcsány was the Prime Minister, and he was at the inauguration of the Turul statue, along with the Ukrainian Prime Minister. [[Dr. Attila Tilki and Mihály Balla: He wasn't there! Nacsa Lőrinc: He wasn't there!]] He was at the inauguration of this statue, so it fell during his reign, and when it was torn down, it fell during the Orbán government. That's the historical fact. By the way, the Democratic Coalition was also involved in relief shipments with the utmost naturality. Under the leadership of Klára Dobrev, I myself was part of the team that brought blankets, hygiene tools, sleeping bags to Vásárosnámény, Zahony, and the rest, which we handed over to the Maltese Charity Service on the spot. So it's not that there's an insensitive left that doesn't help, that's what the Democratic Coalition has done. It's the most natural thing in the world. Just as we are concerned about Hungarians across the border and Hungarians from Transcarpathia, but it does not help Hungarians from across the border if we are in trouble with the country that is being subjected to aggression. It's bad for Hungarians across the border. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-07-98	Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-99	Zsolt Gréczy knows exactly how to falsify the past, he's a master. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Tell me about it.]] And he was a member of the MSZP who sang the International at their party convention, which he was involved in... [[Zsolt Gréczy: I was never a member of the MSZP!]] He was at the party convention with Zsolt Gréczy singing the International in 2009 [[Zsolt Gréczy: I was not a member of the MSZP!]] He was at that convention where the first line sounds like, "The past is completely wiped out." So Zsolt Gréczy has concrete experience in this. Let's get this straight. Ferenc Gyurcsány was not there for the reopening of Turul at work. That's the reopening because it was set up in the 1920s, honourable Member. He wasn't there for his re-prom, he was at an exhibition opening, we're happy for him, but he wasn't at the inauguration of the Turul statue. It doesn't matter from here on out whether you're lying or not. And let's get one thing straight, though, when you're talking about Antal Tiny here, when the Bolsheviks are washing up, it's little Antal and Little Fork. Let's talk a little bit about the Little Fork. It is quite different to be heirs from there, who enjoy this inheritance, the pregnant inheritance, because they can still live in a confiscated and stolen villa, a billionaire villa, by Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev, and your party president is a shadow thing. They live in a confiscated, stolen villa. They've just announced with a big deal that they're gonna sell it. I'd be happy to make a bid to pay off every penny they put in it. In cash, they bought this villa for 900 thousand forints in 95. 900,000 forints, I think we're gonna put together so much here with my fellow Members, and we're gonna be happy to offer you the villa. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The entire Orbán government was a member of that party!]] , in which so many tribulations were decided in the '50s and then in 2006: the beating of Hungarians and their swordsmanship. Ferenc Gyurcsány was able to buy that confiscated and stolen villa with a purchase price of HUF 900 thousand and 10 per cent, from which the 2006 police force against Hungarian people was then conducted; it was a pregnant legacy. I think we should make that villa a museum of communist crimes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zsolt Gréczy: You were going to have me shot with sharps! Look at the history of Pope László Fat's house. Stolen Jewish fortune!]]
u2023-03-07-100	We will return to the list of speakers registered in writing, and I will give the floor to Mr Attila Tilki, not to anyone else. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-07-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Yes, a journalist has problems with his competence, and he has had trouble reading the article because Mr Pákh talks about the fact that he was at a Munkácsy exhibition a year earlier, Ferenc Gyurcsány. But he wasn't there for the Turul statue. That's what we talked about. Of course, Mr Gréczy does not want to understand it, but the representative of the party's party president coming to my constituency, Kispalad, points to a house and says that more than 200 people are registered in this house in Transcarpathian Hungarians; and the house is not even in my own constituency, but the property on Tornyospálca, but your president is unscrupulously saying it into the microphone. And I fully agree with my fellow Member, Károly Panczél, Chairman of the Committee on National Inclusion, that you cannot accept a sentence to save the Transcarpathians, because you always have! impostor Ukrainian voters were seen in the Transcarpathian voters. And let us recall that in the vote on the law on citizenship, you have consistently voted 'no', and you would also have your right to vote back if you were in control of the country. So, from DK, this fear of national politics, I think, is unacceptable. But I am pleased that I am given the opportunity to speak, as I am the parliamentary representative of the constituency which is directly adjacent to Transcarpathia: 24 out of 88 municipalities are administratively bordering Transcarpathia, Ukraine. I remember the day of the 24th, when the war broke out, and a few hours after the news was heard, on every border section except Zahony, because I was there the next morning, and we did help the local leaders, the local residents, coordinate the work they had done for the people who were forced to leave their country. I was at the border, just in Beregsurány, when the news came in about 9:30 p.m., that the border had been closed for men of military age, and from then on only ladies and children could come to the border. And yes, I was proud to hear those of Fidesz speaking here, and those of you who are in this room now, in the first weeks, were there in the first week, helping people in a difficult situation with a donation. Mihály Balla was the first Member of Parliament to call me that night about 7:00 p.m., that I obviously live on the border near the border, perhaps I know better what is needed, and their cargo of twenty-some cars [[On the mark of Mihály Balla:]] Their shipment of vans has arrived in Vásároshnámnyény. However, I would like to say to Mr Gréczy that, according to the decision of the Humanitarian Council, border crossing points were divided, and so Zahony was Lónya of the Reformed Charity Service, the Red Cross, so the Red Cross was responsible for Lónya, and Barabás was the Catholic Charity, together with the Greek Catholics, the Maltese Charity Service in Beregsurány, and the Baptists were Tiszabecsen. There is no Maltese Charity Service in Vásárosnánymény, but we will overlook such a small mistake from you, if you did not remember exactly about Turul, but I am really proud that even the Buglarkas, on the part of the Reformeds, took the donations to the point of Gelénes, that Lőrinc Nacsa has turned several times, and we have helped those in difficulty with concrete physical work, and believe that those who live along the border... We, if we go to Tisakorod, or I go to Uska, or I go to Milota, Tiszabecs, Tiszacs, we can hear it with our own ears, that if the siren sounds out in Transcarpathia. And we didn't see it from movies, but we saw it live, which unfortunately speaks several times for refugees from Ukraine. They've got one application that if there's an air raid, they're gonna call in right away. And we've seen a lot of tragedy in person, beyond the fact that broken families have appeared without men. An elderly grandmother who arrived with her daughter and her granddaughter died in a cute father's house, and her daughter got the phone right there that her husband had fallen on the front; or at the registration point in the White Colon, where they had a little calm, a mother collapsed because her husband had been killed in front of her children because her husband had a beard and looked like Chechen. This murder happened near Kiev. So, unfortunately, the war is causing aggression on both sides, and we have seen these families. [[14.50]] I live next door, I sense exactly what coercion means, what it means to possibly redeem a man's freedom for $2,000; and what it means is that it is better not to ask certain things so that we don't cause trouble for each other. We have sensed precisely the wrong sentences that the leader of your major coalition partners, Péter Márki-Zay, said in the ATV Straight Speech. So if NATO decides to support Ukraine with weapons, then, of course, we will also support it. In Tagesspiegel, he said about sanctions: "This is a matter of principle, even if it hurts us economically; I would also support arms shipments if NATO decided to do so. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Or the Vice President of Jobbik, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, who said at the residential forum, Ádánd said: "He who went to be a soldier went there so that if he was sent by NATO, he would get on the plane and go to war. So all along, Bence Tordai, during the debate in Scruton, where he was talking to Csaba Dömötör, said: "You must stand up for the attacked, you must help them to defend themselves, even with weapons. So you're all on the left, talking about the need to stand up with a gun and not talk about peace at all. So what's weird is that all of a sudden everyone here is pro-peace. I am a member of the Council of Europe and a member of the OSCE. There has not been any opposition there, and they have not yet dared to stand up from the Hungarian opposition that we are in fact in favour of peace. It is easy to say here in the Hungarian Parliament that we have been on the side of peace all along. And obviously, a journalist can't be expected, and I don't expect you to understand history. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] But if you pull out a little bit of Google and look at Google, you'll enter that Padua truce, it was November 3, 1918. You may know that the date of signing the Trianon peace treaty is. June 4th, 20th. So between 3 November 18 and 4 June 20, it was about a year and a half between the signing and signing of the truce and peace. So we are talking about coming here with a just peace, that the path to peace is a truce, and that after the truce, we can talk about peace. But if, as a journalist, history is not to be expected from you, I'm offering you a streammedia. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] A film version of Remarque's famous book, the situation in the West, appeared on one of the transmitters, by the way, in the processing of a German film director, and some say that he will receive an Oscar award, but the critics are questioning the final scene. The last scene is very interesting because it was about the armistice taking effect one day at 11:00. They're gonna start one last attack before 11:00, which is pointless and thousands of people are gonna die in that last attack. So with this resolution, we are talking about the fact that every minute delay can mean people's lives, and Hungary cannot let this Hungarian position, and in Western Europe drifting towards war, people almost outbid each other with the term "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon," "weapon." We say that the interests of Hungary, the interests of the Hungarian nation, are peace, peace, peace. Congressman Gyöngyösi is no longer here. It is true that Congressman Nacsa was right to have a colorless-smelling speech, which is fashionable in the European Parliament, but I would like to point out that, as Márton Gyöngyösi said, in connection with 56, that the referendum on Crimea is legitimate in the light of its history 2014. CHAPTER III That's what he said on the 16th. In fact, he spoke about the triumph of the people's self-determination in relation to the Crimean election, and now he's showing a 56-hole flag, which is uncredited by him. But it is also uncredited of you, and of DK, if you, the heiress and spiritual heiress of the slugger 56, mention it at all. Thank you very much for your attention. I would ask the opposition in Parliament to support this political declaration, which could be the first step of the truce, in order for peace to be reduced, and indeed after the truce, a peace treaty will be signed. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]]
u2023-03-07-102	Congressman Zsolt Gréczy applied for a two-minute speech.
u2023-03-07-103	Thank you very much. Then let's get some things straightened out. History. 1918, ceasefire; 1920, peace. You say that's how it works. How interested was this Romanian army in 1919 when they were hanging out in Budapest and pushing the Romanian border to the Tisza? [[Dr. Attila Tilki intervenes.]] What are we talking about? Well, what we're talking about is that just because someone says a cease-fire doesn't mean the war's over. Yeah, that's the situation. I'll help you with history. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: For me?]] Yes! The other one, Tiny Fork. Well, let's take a look at where László Fats lived, how pissed-off Jewish-owned the Fat family lived. Let's take a look at the Fidesz building on Lendvay Street, where there's Fidesz headquarters today, who owned it, and why it didn't come back. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The heirs of 2006. András Nyitray, at the meeting of the National Security Committee in 2006, objected to why the police did not use sharps. You were going to shoot me in the crowd, Congressman Nacha! [[Lőrinc Nacsa with his hands forms a duck beak towards Zsolt Gréczy.]] It's the truth. It's on the record. You can look at it! Make Google your friend, check it out. It's written, "Purple, András Nitray; this is what happened." Besides, it was not mandatory to be in a party with Antal Apró, the father of Viktor Orbán, and István Stumpf, and Zsigmond Járai, and Sándor Pintér, and György Matolcsy, and the others. Besides, we don't mess with anyone's father and grandfather, 'cause then I'm supposed to come up with Zoltán Pokorni's grandfather with an arrow? What can Zoltán Pokorni do about it? Stop this little fork bullshit! Klára Dobrev is an independent person who represents democratic Hungary in the European Union and Hungary. And by the way, he is the Prime Minister of the shadow government in Hungary. More respect for those who think differently than you. Put the agents' files out there, and then maybe I'll start believing they're facing their party state history. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-07-104	Congressman Attila Tilki also applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-03-07-105	Thank you very much, Madam President. If it's history class, it's history class. Remember Károlyi's Autumn Revolution and the Jászi Oscars, and then what anarchy the Council republic has pushed the country into, the spiritual ancestors. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: His buddies!]] That's when the Romanian army starts, and there's the Szekler division that's resisting. So don't come here and wash up the facts, honourable Member. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The Highlands were protected...]] You'd better get deep in your historical knowledge because it's incomplete and selective. CHAPTER XX The century was about how your predecessors, the Communists, have caused this country great damage. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-07-106	We will now continue the debate with the Members who have asked for the normal word, and in the framework of this, it will be Mr István Apáti, Mi Hazank. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, At least there is agreement on the one thing, or perhaps the appearance of consensus on the horizon, that a peace-breaking as quickly as possible would be the most important, but neither in the political leadership of the United States nor in the political leadership of Russia has yet to be decided, and the situation is not ripe. In addition to continuing the taboo-dipping fact-finding, which is the heart or soul of many, let us also consider that when we talk about shipments of western weapons, about 35 countries are now involved in these transactions, and at least 35 countries carry different types of weapons, including very expensive weapons, including many weapons systems that are likely to be used or used for the first time in the field in live, in the field of war. What I'm trying to say is that, unfortunately, the biggest deal in the world and the dirtiest deal in the world is the gun deal. Then, closely, drugs and crime are followed by legalized or criminalized crime in various forms. [[15.00]] The United States, the United Kingdom and several Western countries run a huge business when they sell their old stuck weapons systems, or their latest weapons, which have been tested only at experimental level, which have not yet been used in battlefield conditions, but now it is possible to do so. It is very easy to make offerings to arms shipments, especially those countries that are geographically safe from the war zone. Unfortunately, we are physically, geographically as close to the war scenes as possible, and that may put only the Poles in greater danger. So we need to be very careful about this issue. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) That is why I would like to get an answer from the Secretary of State to the very important question, whether this is the answer to which Ukrainian soldiers have been trained in Hungary, yes or no, then where does the Slovak Minister of Defence get this, why did he say that, then call on the Slovak Government or the Slovak Minister of Defence, or the Slovak diplomats in Budapest, to correct this inaccurate statement if it is indeed inaccurate. I hope that the country will not allow arms shipments, and we are indeed on the position of neutrality, which, I know, in such geographical, physical proximity is still very difficult to decide and very difficult to maintain, so we are realistic in thinking of the Our Country Movement when it says so, but the only right position is the position of neutrality in favour of pro-peace. So when we talk about how heroically the West is helping the truly, truly heroically fighting and therefore worthy of all praise to the Ukrainian army, because they are really brave in terms of power, this, I believe, is an undisputed fact, let us put it in the deck, put it in the balance pan to make an amazing business that is happening, and let no one believe that the United States is helping Ukraine out of pure humanity, human-centric thinking, quasi-charitable aspects. Ukraine's fate has been arranged practically for at least 50 years in advance. And then I don't even want to bring here any dirty business, business, various economic interests of the Biden family, but what I'm trying to say is that Ukraine, if not militaryly or not completely, is lost economically. In areas that will not be occupied by the Russians, the western allies of the United States and the United States will economically lay their hands on them, because obviously they will pay the bill for operating grants, arms shipments, in-kind and financial benefits. This is not a gift coming from the Western world to Ukraine. The United States is not known to give gifts, to reward and to have no expectations. It will cost Ukraine tens of times, hundreds of times, what it receives or will receive in this period. Ukrainian soil is extremely high quality. We are facing an overpopulation worldwide, so high-quality agricultural land will be one of the greatest treasures. The Americans are probably gonna put their hands on this. So when we shed crocodile tears here and are touched by the humane thinking of America, let us also remember that this is an amazing business, one of the meanest and darkest deals. At the same time, let us also talk about the consequences of the war in Hungary, and I will have some sharper questions about it towards the end. It is true that it is a serious slip on the part of the government that they claim that they are creating the false impression that inflation has started because the war broke out on 24 February 2022, and that inflation has been high since the war broke out. That's not true. The fuel stop was introduced in the no-vember 2021 and, as I recall, it was already in force. [[István Szabadi: Yes. Zsolt Gréczy: No.]] Correct me if I'm wrong. There is no direct causal link between war and inflation, in a manner of speaking, to the release of almost hyperinflationary. In terms of food prices, which are most deeply affecting Hungarian households in addition to electricity and gas accounts, the rate of price increases can be measured not in percentages, but in multipliers. This is the case in a country with a God-given gift, agricultural set-up, a country that should supply 30 million people with high-quality food or food materials, but cannot supply ten million. In 30 years of co-production, Fidesz-KDNP and left-wing governments brought this together, so thank you very much, although, of course, that was not the voice of sincere thanks. So it's not true that there have been inflation problems since the war broke out. It is easy to smear, smear, and base it on the possibility that there may be few voters who remember only three weeks or three months, and then what was a year or a half ago appears vaguely in their memory. Your failed economic policy is most responsible for the record inflation rate in Hungary. I have some exciting questions, again not so much from a lawyer's point of view, although I am a lawyer, or not so much from an economics approach, just thinking about common sense. When the Paks power plant costs how much? For a maximum of HUF 5 or HUF 10-12, please tell me, fellow Members, why is it that after the 2523 kilowatt hour/year quota, Hungarians are given electricity for HUF 70! Within the 2523 kilowatt hour, there is a kilowatt current of HUF 36 above 70. Why is it that up to 1729 cubic meters per year of gas consumption 102 forints a cubic meter of gas, above 747 forints? Or I would expect an answer from either the Secretary of State or one of the members of the government, how it could be that if we actually bought gas from the Russians at a fifth price, it would cost HUF 747. How can the price above the quota be more than seven times the preferential price? I would be very curious, and I think there are about ten million people in this country who would also be very curious about what Hungarians can expect from the government in terms of electricity and gas prices in the calendar year 2023. Because unfortunately, let's be honest and turn back to the war, now to World War III, let's not be right, we're much closer than the ceasefire or the peace process. In English, we have to settle for prolonged inflation, prolonged high electricity, gas and food prices. What can the Hungarian people expect from you in 2023? Could this be at least the level of the so-called reduced overhead reduction? What happens then, honourable members of the government, because you have been ruling this country for 13 years, with a total power of almost two thirds for most of the time, what happens if NATO decides to send real force, i.e. troops, to protect Ukraine, without an attack on one of the NATO Member States? Therefore, Article 5 is not yet in force. Will Hungarian soldiers march to the Ukrainian front or not? Can you maintain a neutral position if it is even neutral now, if there really are no training and there really is no transfer of weapons in Hungary? So what's the deal? Of course, it would also be worth talking about the fact that that particular Polish territory must have been attacked by soldiers of what nationality, who knows, fighting by the Ukrainian army or in Ukrainian uniform, to drag the whole world into the Third World War. At the beginning of the debate, a number of people were talking about how good it was that the Poles reacted calmly at the time. And yet Article 5 did not enter into force. In addition to Article 5 or Article 5, if NATO decides to start, in Hungarian, if the United States of America decides to extend the war to the greatest extent possible, and then directly, directly, I am not right, we are already living in the days of the Third World War, then what is Hungary's position, whether Hungarian soldiers are going or not? Our position is that they must not go, we cannot be directly involved in the war. That's when it's decided what you really think, although may God grant you that historical events don't go to such an extreme point. However, as long as the crisis does not widen, but it is likely that the current war will go on, how will the Hungarian population survive economically? Two times two is four, and according to the rules of probability calculation, there is a good chance of saying that the next winter will not be as mild as it is slowly behind us. I'm not a math genius, but according to the probabilities rules, two years in a row, there's very little chance of that. If the winter of 2023-2024 will be much tougher than this year, what can the Hungarian people expect from you? When, by the way, the creation of renewable energy sources, if I want to use a term of war, was cut off last year from hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, who wanted to ensure energy independence by installing solar systems. [[15.10]] They did the exact opposite of what they should have done there. I know that this is not necessarily only the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, but there are unfortunately no other State Secretarys sitting here or other representatives who may be competent in the field, but we would like to be informed. The declarations of pro-peace are very important, of course Fidesz also needs to be able to do a pro-peace and pro-war sharing with such a one-by-one message to the outside world, but it would be more important that the country's power supply was ensured. Yes or no? If so, at what cost to the population, at what cost to entrepreneurs, because if they collapse, the dominoes will start and the entire Hungarian economy will fall. I would ask the same question about gas prices: what can we expect in the next period? Because, after making large international outlooks, it would be good to consider our own simple, everyday, penny - worth problems and to know what we can do, how we can help Hungarian people. So I'm looking forward to this with your honored answer, beyond all the important or less important, essential or less important perversions here, and we're teaching each other history and making other grand statements. Let's try to get back to the reality, because once again with the winter weather, we won't be so lucky. We've had great luck, let's face it, with this winter, we've had divine luck. It really looks like the good Lord is watching over us for now. It would be good if the war were to end as soon as possible, and then divine protection would be fulfilled. But this country will face very serious problems, the problems of the government will be less interesting, and the problems of the Hungarian people will be, if the next winter is bad, inflation will not be able to be stopped so easily. So I would like to expect you to answer these simple problems, questions and problems on earth in as much detail as possible in this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-07-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue the debate, with a two-minute speech. From the DK Group, MEP Zsolt Gréczy applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-07-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In that way, towards the end of the debate, I would like to add once again that the Democratic Coalition wants peace in Ukraine. The price of peace is not that the Russians are taking some from Ukraine, because in the long term it will not mean peace, but the extent of war. If they could take a part from Ukraine, they would say that the Baltic States are nothing compared to this. How safe is Moldova and European peace in general? And if Hungary, the Hungarian government, is already a pro-peaceist, then perhaps we should not buy the most expensive gas in the world from the Russians in order that the Russians might make weapons out of that revenue and continue to finance the war. The Orbán government is now rather financing Putin's war by buying expensive gas. So it's a verbal thing to have peace, and math is to go out with a lot of money. It should be resolved that Hungary is not dependent on Russian gas. I would also like to draw attention to international relations. I do not think that the right-wing conservative Polish government has betrayed Poland's interests by making a clear position in favour of Ukraine and carrying weapons and participating in transport. I do not think that the Czech Republic or Slovakia or Romania, not to mention Western Europe, would have opposed its own national interest. By the way, you can see that where there has been an election in these countries for the last year, there has always been a force that has stood firm for Ukraine. So Hungary is isolated in this situation, it is quite clear, we are facing the motorway, everyone is facing us, and according to the Democratic Coalition, this is not a national interest. The Hungarian national interest is that there should be peace, but it is also in the national interest that Hungary should not be a pariah in the Western European world. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-07-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs Dóra Dúró, from the Group of our country, has applied for a proper speech. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Here, during my chair, I listened to this debate for two hours, and I would have liked to have said a lot of things, but I try to be focused and express my thoughts on the proposal for a resolution and on the subject. What has been going on over the past year on the part of Western Europe and, above all, the United States on this war, is extremely powerful hypocrisy and extraordinary cynicism, which is basically all about the United States wanting to pursue its own economic interests, and nothing is expensive for them, not even the lives of Ukrainian people. Because it has to be, it is very important, and I will talk about the economic restructuring that is already the result of this war in Europe and Hungary, but above all, in every war, we have to talk about human lives, homes, families, and, by the way, about how much destruction is happening in Ukraine, how many refugees there are, how many people change their lives, how and when they will be able to restore these areas at all, and the United States does not take any of this into account. Unfortunately, we also need to talk about it, because a lot of people in Western Europe are questioning the fact that Hungary and every country have the right to take their own positions on this war. We have the right to say that we are not transporting weapons, we also have the right to say that, say, we do not support the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO, which leads to further escalation of the war, and we have the right to say that our own economic relations with Russia or any other country will otherwise be shaped in the way we want. You can't help noticing the brutal double standard that's in the media. Here, my fellow Member Attila Tilki spoke about the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, and I am a member of it myself, and I am stunned by the short-sighted thinking that was essentially drawn from the speeches of the Members who appeared there. They do not realize or want to notice what economic consequences Europe has to face and that it is going to its own end, as opposed to, say, what we might otherwise see even in relation to Russia. The great Western analysts said at the outbreak of the war that sanctions would cause the decline of the Russian economy to be around 10% or more in 2022. We read this in the press, and then we saw that according to the latest figures, based on the various measurements, a shrinkage of 2.3 to 3.6 percent was achieved in the Russian economy last year. But more importantly, those forecasts, and I would like to bring to the public of this House an estimate of the IMF which cannot be called a Russian propagandaist, as the IMF predicts that in 2023 the rate of economic growth in Europe's largest economy, Germany, will be lower than in Russia. Thus, the fact that the IMF is expecting economic growth in Russia by 2023 shows that these sanctions are practically worthless. The Russian economy may have shrunk temporarily for one year, in the year of the outbreak of the war, but according to the IMF's forecast, the Russian economy will continue to grow this year, but by 2024 it is projected that the growth rate of the Russian economy will be higher than that of the German, Italian and French economies. This has been published and this analysis is available on their website. So we see that the war will have very serious economic consequences for Europe, and even now there are: food inflation is 20-30-50 percent, but inflation in the whole of the European Union was 9.2 percent; Europe is losing one of its most important export markets and one of its most reliable suppliers of cheap energy and raw materials, so it is clear that its competitiveness on the world market will be significantly impaired. [[15.20]] So if the Russian economy shrinks, and the pace of economic growth is obviously more moderate, as if this war were not, and Europe is extremely slowing down in terms of its competitiveness, then the biggest winner of this will be the United States of America, and it already is, since last summer, the situation emerged that more of the US LNG shipments came to Europe in June than Russian resources. So Europe's calculations didn't work in this war, the Russian economy didn't strike, according to IMF forecasts, it won't break this year or next year. The obvious consequence of this is that Russia will be able to finance this war for years. We must therefore settle for years if there is not a strategic rethink of the policy so far in Europe, that we must live with this conflict of war, with all its humanitarian, defence, security and economic consequences. Therefore, the Hungarian Movement urges a change in European politics and to change this short-sighted, highly hypocritical thinking, because it already seems that it will not produce results. It's not going to work. We can end this war if we make concessions, and both parties involved in this war will be able to compromise. Because Russia's military destruction will not take place, and economic sanctions have not crushed the Russian economy. You can see that now. It is obvious that this war is particularly painful for us Hungarians because it also affects the situation of Hungarians in Transcarpathia. Here it is very important to state what Western European politicians do not want to notice that history did not start on 24 February 2022. Of course, if we consider this whole conflict to be a military violation of Ukraine's territory, then we can talk about it, only this is part of the short-sighted thinking, and the souvinist measures that the Ukrainian regime has taken against Russian and Hungarian minorities in Ukraine for decades were also suffered by the Hungarian communities. We shouldn't forget that. And when we look at this war or this region, we must prevent all other aspects from being recognised by the Ukrainian state at least now, more than a hundred years after the birth of this dictatorship, by the fact that the security and fundamental minority rights of the Transcarpathian Hungarians, which should have been regarded as fundamental during the Trianon peace dictatorship, should have been recognised by the Ukrainian state and all anti-minority or anti-Hungarian measures should be abolished by Ukraine. There is another fundamental issue on the issue of peace, which we also talked about in the Parliament, but it is important to mention in the context of the war, and this is the question of the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO. We see now that Parliament's delegation also travels to these countries to negotiate with those involved, but on the part of the Hungarian Movement we regard this as an act, and we are absolutely sure that the party factions will ensure a sufficient majority for Sweden and Finland to become members of NATO. At the same time, if we follow the logic that we hear a lot of times from government representatives or from Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, namely that we do not support any action leading to further escalation of the war, then the NATO membership of Sweden and Finland cannot be included in this line. This is another step in increasing the security risk for NATO, increasing the security risk for Hungary, and the majority of the governing parties will also say yes to an intention to join, which is contrary to the fact that this kind of ceasefire and peace can be achieved. To sum up, I would like to say that economic sanctions, the kind of policy that the United States and Europe have been doing so far, are completely wrong, and Europe needs its own autonomous position, which does not subordinate its own interests to the economic and political interests of the United States and can launch a clear process towards peace. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-07-112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I would like to speak again to Mr István Apáti of the Group of Our Country. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I've been thinking about a few things. In my first round or second round speech, I mentioned that basically we can only rely on ourselves, and that our whole history teaches us this, and that we should not let ourselves be thrown down as a buffer zone and sacrificed on the altar of world power interests. But I'd like to go back to the idea that we can only rely on ourselves and the energy supply, energy security. Because if the worst happens and the war in the current framework goes on indefinitely, if God does not give and escalate, if God does not give, then the more serious and the more pressing the next question is what we can do for our own energy security. Here we go back to a topic that now seems peripheral compared to the agenda, that it is a strategic mistake to make this country a huge battery power instead of a large power in the food industry or food processing industry, as food supply can be a fundamental issue, 112. But let us also go back to the supply of electricity and gas, because we can and must make efforts to reduce our dependence on natural gas significantly in a short period of time. It is very easy to say this, it is very easy to say, but it is much more difficult to implement, especially when it may hinder the use of solar solutions, for example, for a financially suitable part of the population, rather than helping those who, through a simplified administration to the extreme, would be able to make energy security or energy independence of their own residential properties a great deal more important. Let's check the power. It would be very important to develop the network as quickly as possible, to implement the Paks development as quickly as possible, but there is another more pressing issue, which is linked to the supply of natural gas. Because even though we are opening up space for renewable energy sources, even if Paks may develop with steam, even though we are developing our electricity grid, this is all a multi-annual process. This will not be resolved from one year to the next, especially in 2023, and will take a scale, a turnaround that would greatly help the public's energy security. Because the problem is, of course, not only how much the Hungarian population and Hungarian businesses can buy electricity and gas, but also the main issue is that there is no access to electricity and natural gas. What I'm trying to say is that there's not so much leftover, vicious theory that only 600 billion cubic meters of natural gas is in the Mako trench. On the basis of the average annual gas consumption in Hungary of about 10 billion cubic metres, it is not difficult to calculate that our 60-year reserve is only in the Mako trench. Self-sufficiency is on our own, ladies and gentlemen. And then we didn't even visit South Transdanubia or South Great Plain. The fact that Mol suddenly started exploring the sites in the mother country, Hungary, with a phase delay of about 30 years, but otherwise quite rightly, but with a phase delay of 30 years, they drilled one in Vecse, see wonder world, there is natural gas. In my own constituency, in the vicinity of Vaja, there is also very good research, Penészleken, in the district of Nyírbátor there has long been a serious site, the exact data of which I do not know why, has been handled secretly. [[15.30]] But if we don't get further away from Mako, then there's 600 billion cubic meters of natural gas in our territory, in our territory, the problem is that the sentence goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. If that's true, then I'd be very interested to know which government gave you this, what kind of time span you're entitled to for the American Canadian company. And if it is possible, either in accordance with the provisions of the extraordinary legal order, or in a negotiated manner, because it is economically disproportionate, and it is not appropriate to kick down the door, because if that door is a swinging door, then we are wrong, and we may be hit in the face, and it is heroic to fight for freedom, if everything I have said is true to reality, then this right of extraction will be restored to 100 percent by the Hungarian State, because in exceptional times exceptional measures are needed, and if there is a freedom struggle that makes sense, it is exactly like that. And then we didn't even talk about the excavation in the area of Vécsés and Baja, that MOL, according to its own statement, wants to spend around HUF 40 billion this year to explore new sites and drills. Very well, there's plenty of money at MOL, so you don't have to worry about them, drill as fast as you can, and then suddenly the percentage of self-sufficiency increases. Why it took 33 years to wait for this, why it had to wait for the nearness of the world war, why it had to wait for the American-Russian war in the Ukrainian territory, why it had to wait for such a critical period to take this step, or to take this step, is a good question, but better later than never. So my question, Mr. Secretary of State, is that you saw a realistic chance that only the extremely large amount of gas in the macoon trench, which would be saved for 60 years, and, by the way, not the 102, but perhaps the 42 forints per cubic meter would bring gas prices to Hungarian voters, which would also be very good for your political popularity and support, so a delicious, promising, very promising perspective for you would be such an important step... only then would you really have to go against it. I know it's not up to the Secretary of State, so I don't want to put you in an awkward position, let there be no misunderstanding, but I would still be interested in this, as the right-wing radical opposition Member of Parliament, who is concerned about his country, who is significantly better off from Fidesz, in this regard, about these withheld facts. Because this would be much more important for the Hungarian people in relation to information and information flows than the various, often even one-bit government propaganda messages about how we can ensure this basic energy supply for Hungarian households. This is an important question and I am referring to the macoon trench many times because what happened in the North Stream can easily happen further south, and if, don't give it to God, there is also an act of terrorism and the supply from the south is destroyed, I know that only 20 or 30 percent of the average gas consumption of 10 billion cubic metres per year is guaranteed. So if that power supply is cut off, the country has about 2-3 billion cubic metres of gas at its disposal, which means that it will cut us back to about the age of economic stone, because it is impossible to convert the population, businesses and the Hungarian economy from one year to another exclusively to renewable energy sources. I understand the immense dedication of Congressman Nacsa, and I say that I do not doubt, in part, even pro-peace honesty, but just because the Parliament accepts a pro-peace or any declaration, we have not yet received an answer to the question that, if our gifts allow it, we want gas independence, or we want to get back what is obtained from our land, the Hungarian soil, for an American Canadian group, and it makes a fatty profit for them. They make an amazing profit, and we get 747 for the gas we could get for pennies. This is, however, the very extreme, exceptionally outrageous category, ladies and gentlemen, precisely at a time when we cannot afford to act like a little girl in a tulle dress anyway! And by the way, why do you need to pick up on American and Canadian condoms? Why should we be scared of people coming from the United States and Canada? Because if the world has looked at it, an old Szekler saying has not taken into account that the bear is not a toy, the Russian bear is not a toy either, then at least, when the trouble is beginning to widen completely, but we may have a little time, we have a mild winter to prepare for the next winter or winter, and it may be a last and a one-time help, then it would be worth considering that we are increasing the capacity of the food industry, as we are sticking to it, especially if the times are harder than now, we can live without batteries, not without food. And it would be equally important to provide cheap natural gas for a country that will not be able, I repeat, to switch to renewable energy sources only within a year or two. I would expect the answers to these important questions to be as precise as possible, because this may require a longer review or preparation period, I will, of course, accept a written reply, given that these important answers are not purely and not exclusively within the purview or operational scope of the Secretary of State. Thank you. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-03-07-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members that, since everything is linked to everything, in the coming period, we should focus solely on the presentation and bill of the one-year anniversary of the Russian-Ukrainian war, and not go anywhere with any energy, education, and I would like to mention a few more topics that could be discussed interestingly here, before the plenum of Parliament, but rather stay with what is being debated. Accordingly, on behalf of the Government, I am speaking to Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-07-115	Mr. President, thank you very much. I have followed the wide-ranging debate with great attention, and there have been several points where the government has addressed me directly, so I thought it was right not to ask for completeness, but I will return to some of the most important questions and make our position clear. The first and perhaps the most important, which has been said several times, so it was said at the level of the question whether the government is serving Hungarian interests. In this regard, I think it is worth clarifying what the interests of Hungary are in relation to the current conflict, and simplifyingly, I have collected six points in which I think the essence of Hungarian interests can be grasped. The first is to stay out of the war; that's not a question, that's the most important thing. Second, to preserve peace at all costs, and part of that is to prevent NATO or the European Union from slipping into this conflict. The third is to minimise the effects of the wrong sanctions; this is at least as important as the first two. The fourth is to convince the parties of the need for a ceasefire and peace talks. The fifth is to give support and protection to the Hungarians of Transcarpathia. And the sixth is to veto new proposals with sanctions that threaten the energy supply and the Hungarian economy. If we look at the six aspects and look at the direction in which the Hungarian Government is acting on these issues, I think it is not a question that the Hungarian Government serves and supports peace and Hungarian interests, and who questions this, is either actually wrong or falsely values reality, or may represent the interests of others, or is not primarily concerned with Hungarian interests. The second issue is the question of sanctions. It has been said here several times that the government always supports sanctions. In this regard, I would like to say that from the outset, the government has had theoretical and practical reservations about sanctions, which, moreover, we have expressed quite strongly at home and in the international context. On the one hand, because we see that they do not change the basic conditions, they do not change the policies of individual actors, and on the other hand because they harm us, Europe, Hungary, much more than the target entities. We have been stressing this from the beginning. The other issue is that, in the interests of the EU unity, we have tried to reach a compromise on several occasions, and we have accepted unity, and we have not vetoed. Moreover, the accusation was also made that the government wants to drive Hungary out of the European Union. This is precisely the pursuit of European Union unity that proves that this is not the case at all. [[15.40]] On the other hand, we have always ensured that proposals which would violate Hungarian interests are not accepted, and this will continue to be the case in the future, because this is the job of the national government. This is therefore the protection of the Hungarian national interest, and I therefore do not think that it is reasonable and justified to question this. There have been several other issues, the UN resolution, which was recently adopted, at least some of the UN member states. This is a decision in a completely different context, not at all comparable to a national parliamentary decision. There, they try to take into account the aspects of nearly 200 countries, and eventually, 141 countries were brought into a ship in this case, but you can see how diverse this system of interests is, and there is still a pro-peace majority, because the resolution itself, which has been adopted, is pro-peace. However, there is no way that it can be compared to a national parliamentary decision, which is being discussed here, and which is based on Hungarian interests and Hungarian considerations. The adoption of the UN resolution is therefore not contrary to the support of the current proposal for a resolution, and we therefore support it by the government. One question was, and it was also said, that a new Iron Curtain will be created here, Hungary will be on the wrong side and the government and the country will be isolated. I think that talking about an iron curtain is an unhistoric and pointless thing at the moment, because Hungary is a full member of NATO and the European Union, involved in decision-making, and, by the way, is an active shaper of the processes there through the government. So we are not acting in the spirit of being small, and we have never had such weight in decision-making, I can assure the House. This is also due to the fact that they know that if the government or Parliament has a strong position on something in particular, the government will insist on doing so in the decision-making process. This raises respect, and this increases Hungary's foreign policy weight, so we are not isolated, but our specific weight has increased. Finally, a statement by the Slovak Minister for Defence came up several times. In this connection, I would like to say what I have already emphasised, that Hungary is helping those in distress and those in need outside Ukraine and Ukraine in the framework of the greatest humanitarian action in its history. In this context, we helped hospitalise wounded Ukrainian soldiers and also took part in training Ukrainian military health professionals. So there's no sensation, it's part of the same big humanitarian package. By the way, the Department of Defense has issued a statement about this. However, we did not support any action that could lead to the continuation or escalation of war. I would like to stress that energy issues are so diverse and the government is doing so in so many areas that it is worth organising a separate discussion on this in any form. We are also prepared to answer the questions in writing if the Member submits them. Finally, a hundred words have one end: the government supports the pro-peace resolution proposal and encourages all Members in the Hungarian Parliament to also support this resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will now ask Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thank the Secretary of State for clarifying and answering a number of questions. As regards the accusations of the Slovak Minister of Defence, we announced our offer already in August. The Chief of Staff of the Hungarian Defence Forces announced that we are ready to care for wounded, injured Ukrainian soldiers in hospital beds, and because Hungarian field health care and camp health care are of a very high standard, NATO has also installed a centre of excellence here, so we are ready to act as a life-saving intervention and are treating it as a humanitarian aid program to train soldiers who will receive medical education or training here thanks to the Hungarian high level of knowledge. We are also doing this in the context of humanitarian action because we believe that it can save lives, because on a battlefield, on a front, medical knowledge can often save lives, and that is why it is important. We are not doing anything that would help the parties to continue the war that would lead to the escalation of war. This is exactly where we drew that red line, and that is why I find it sad that in the last year we have heard two statements from left-wing politicians: pro-war and pro-sanctional statements. That is why it bothers me that while the Hungarian government, the more sober majority of the Hungarian Parliament, is doing everything in its power to ensure peace, for example, Klára Dobrev said that there should be a lot more sanctions and sanctions, or, for example, Sándor Rónai said that weapons should be carried. That is why I say that it is not right to go in this direction, because there is only one solution to the pointless destruction, the murderous war, the ceasefire and the peace negotiations. We know that there will be no winners in this war, no one can win this war, because the bombed cities, the destroyed infrastructure and the escape of millions of the Ukrainian population are everything but victory. It's a loss for everyone. It is especially important that we stand up for our fellow countrymen in the war country, the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. This is why the vulnerable situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians is mentioned in this proposal for a resolution, since hundreds of Hungarians have given their blood and lives for the meaningless, devastating war. We believe that this killing must end as soon as possible. How do you end it? We can only achieve this with immediate ceasefire and as soon as possible peace talks. I would like to note that in the debate I did not have the opportunity to do so, and I must say that it is particularly painful for us, and I must say that it is disappointing that, while Hungarian people gave their lives and blood for Ukraine, even during the war, our Transcarpathian compatriots in Ukraine suffer atrocities. The right to use the Hungarian language will be mutilated and the directors of the Hungarian schools will be replaced, and these Hungarian schools will not be able to function in essence from September. We do not think that this is the way to strengthen minority rights, but rather to limit rights, and I think that we want to expect a change from the Ukrainian government as soon as possible. I would like to thank everyone who has participated in the debate, who has spoken out. I am sorry that the left-wing Members continued where these debates had stopped. This is what Agnes Vadai spoke about in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is what Szabó Timea spoke about yesterday and this morning. I think that there is a resolution here, if someone reads every point of this, we have thought a lot about the text, and we have thought a lot about it, so that we can create exactly a text that should be acceptable to everyone, based on common sense, if you really claim to be pro-peace, then this text that we have put down here should be acceptable, since it deals with three or four issues. The most important is the commitment to peace, we again condemn Russia's aggression and stand in favour of Ukraine's right to self-defense. If we look at the economic sanctions, the sanctions on energy from the Hungarian position, because energy issues have been raised several times in the Hungarian position and debate, that we cannot support a decision or in the last case we have to make an exception, which will destroy the Hungarian economy. DK representatives, dialogue representatives and LMP representatives have also said that we must immediately become independent of Russian gas. They didn't tell us what kind of gas should arrive on that wire, but they don't have a solution, because they only have loud horse-zungs, but there's no meaningful solution; and Szabó Timea always has one of these, surely as a lobbyist, offering us the seven times more expensive American LNG, but since Hungary doesn't have a seaport, it even makes it more expensive. What we have done in the interest of energy independence is that we have built an interconnector with all our neighbours, and this is the last time we have built an interconnector with Slovenia. Under the Gyurcsány government, we had an interconnector with a neighbouring country, and now we have the interconnector with all the neighbouring countries. After all, it is a matter of physical reality that there is a source, that there is a pipeline, that is a gas reservoir, which was sold by the Gyurcsány government, and then the Hungarian government was sued for buying back the gas reservoirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to this fact that it is a matter of physical reality that we have these infrastructures and after gas comes from that source. We are doing everything we can to diversify our gas supply. For us diversification does not mean that we are switching from one addiction to another, but that we are looking for competitors, but that we are looking for various sources of supply and that we are trying to solve the energy independence of our country. [[15.50]] Last year the sanctions took HUF 4000 billion out of the Hungarians' pocket. Today, we could also continue to discuss that if Brussels had not introduced failed sanctions, which led to European inflation tripled, Europe's inflation was three times as high as a year ago if you wanted to, I could write this down with a mathematical formula: war plus sanctions, equal inflation; it could be said with such a simple formula; if in Brussels they had not spent their time figuring out new sanctions, but how they would help the various Member States to switch energy to the different Member States, how to save European businesses, European plants and factories, so that they would not be bought up by non-European operators, and thus the European economy could continue to be competitively strengthened by the European economy, even in times of recession, even in times of crisis, then I think that we could talk about something else, and the 4000 billion forints that were caused by the drastic increase in energy prices and the wrong interconnection of gas and electricity prices in Brussels, we could now also talk about what areas to go into, what areas, what development, what goals we could talk about, and how Hungarian businesses are in a difficult situation. [[Sic!]] Unfortunately, that's not what's happening. That is why we look at the issue of sanctions from a Hungarian perspective, and therefore we look at the issue of sanctions from the point of view of the Hungarian interest; that is why we have written down what we have written; that is why we think that energy sanctions must be reviewed in particular; and that is why we say that we should not deepen Europe's economic recession with sanctions, but that we should help the European economy to recover and that the war should be completed, and that Europe's every possible time, means, energy and influence should be devoted to facilitating the rapid implementation of the ceasefire and the early start of peace negotiations. We believe that this text is acceptable to all who stress that peace is important to them. Be clear: anyone voting in favour of this text is pro-peace, who does not support the resolution proposal is pro-war. I'm asking you to support him. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The Government of Hungary and the World Food Programme [[WFP]] the general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Agreement on the establishment of the WFP Global Business Service Centre until its closure. The government referral is T/3088. The Parliamentary Information Network is available to all. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-119	Mr. President, thank you very much. In view of the great interest, I try to be brief. I would like to inform the Parliament that the purpose of the bill before you is to announce the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the World Food Programme on the establishment of the WFP Global Business Service Centre. Please allow me first to briefly explain the purpose and content of the agreement on which the bill is based. The World Food Programme, the WFP, is the world's largest multilateral food aid organisation established by the United Nations and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation, or FAO, based in Rome in 1961. The idea of the World Food Programme regarding the creation of the WFP Global Business Service Centre is in line with the Hungarian Government's intention to make Hungary a kind of reception centre for international organisations, especially the UN and its specialised institutions. In order to start the work of the WFP in Hungary, it is necessary to conclude an international contract, a headquarters agreement, which addresses the most important issues of the legal status of the organisation and its officials. The headquarters agreement provided for in this Act consists of 16 articles and, like international organisations already established in Hungary, regulates the WFP in detail, as well as the privileges and immunities of its staff, as well as the facilitations provided by Hungary. Dear Parliament, The recognition of the binding scope of the agreement opens the possibility of creating new jobs, which promotes the aim of ensuring that the employment of a qualified, highly qualified, language-speaking Hungarian labour force in Hungary is achieved as widely as possible. I therefore ask this House to adopt the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-121	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Even during the coronal virus epidemic, domestic agriculture proved to be impact-resistant, and thanks to the persistence of the agricultural workers, there was plenty of food available for the Hungarians' table. The pandemic, the Ukrainian war, climate change, sanctions in Brussels, high energy costs and inflation create serious barriers to food availability, especially in developing countries, and the role of local markets and domestic food has been particularly appreciated in recent years. Short supply chains and conscious purchase also contribute to reducing food waste. The Government of Hungary is committed to addressing food problems with locally sustainable programmes. It is not migration, but local development of food production and training that cures hunger. One-time relief is important, especially during a pandemic, but it is really good to help if it has a lasting effect. These aspects should also be taken into account in the planning of all international programmes. The Hungarian Agricultural Ministry also contributes to the improvement of global food safety through a number of bilateral and multilateral programmes at global level. The World Food Programme is the world's largest multilateral food aid organisation, fully financed through voluntary offerings. The programme's efforts will focus on emergency and development assistance, rehabilitation and special operations, and will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, in particular with regard to the hunger eradication target. Dear House, Hungary is also a member of the Governing Board of the Programme, the Executive Committee and the Bureau of the Executive Committee. The objectives of the World Food Programme are essentially the same as those of the Hungarian foreign policy, in particular the need to provide care to refugees close to their home or in neighbouring countries, so that they can return to their homes as soon as possible. In addition, the idea of setting up the Global Business Service Centre is in line with the Hungarian Government's intention. Budapest is an ideal location for location, accommodation infrastructure, the advanced financial and IT sector, as well as the highly qualified and foreign language-speaking workforce. The programme plans to employ 81 people in Hungary from the end of 2023, of which at least 85 per cent would be local workers. The introduction of initial financial functions in the medium term is expected to be extended by further activities. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would ask my fellow Members, like the Fidesz Group, to support the bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-123	Mr President, Dear House, Like those who spoke before me, I am a little disappointed by the low level of interest in this item on the agenda, because it is not only a matter of world food, but also of a little more narrow focus on the safety of Hungary. And I am glad that I am not the first in the ranks of lead speakers to talk about the fact that the issue of food security in Hungary is somewhat linked to the fact that when we take action on the World Food Programme, I think it is Eligible, then what is the situation here at home. It is important to clarify why I say that I think it is Eligible steps. The roughness of Parliament's style has led directly to the fact that there are very few proposals around which there is consensus, and sometimes we are looking for knots regardless of sides. I tried to avoid that during the examination of the bill. The signed agreement, under which Hungary will assume commitments, will remain in force for 15 years, obviously we would have thought it would have been better, say, to settle for 5 years and then to review it if necessary. [[16.00]] But if this is the way a contract is concluded, it is very difficult to influence this subsequently at the approval stage. We also see that this agreement is automatically extended for further periods of ten years. This is the smaller part of the question, since the first term really matters. But we also need to see that exemptions such as accredited diplomatic missions are granted to certain arrivals here, they are free from all forms of judicial proceedings. Tax and luggage exemptions are also mentioned here. This is not, by the way, unknown either in the world of diplomats or consuls, so I don't think anyone should be involved in this. Obviously, there will be someone who will get involved in this, in addition to the spouses, with dependent family members living in the common household. This is also not unprecedented. I do not think that this is the strongest part of the proposal. However, I think it is very, very important that we talk about Hungary's food safety. And by the way, inviting and supporting a professional workshop under the auspices of the UN would also allow the Hungarian experts to talk much deeper about what is and what is happening to us at home. Perhaps it was the Covid period when it turned out that these very long supply chains, which, by the way, also apply to the purchase of food, could cause such disturbances. In the automotive industry, this management technique is known for its just-in-time style, which means that it works with a minimum warehouse base and operates with fast purchases. This has been widespread in the world in recent decades. And precisely because of the nature of the right time, it is vulnerable if it is not possible to obtain the right raw materials in a short time. From the chip gap, many other global economic processes have demonstrated that the abbreviation of supply chains can be a solution for a nation state in as many areas as possible. It is no coincidence that all this has been mentioned on the previous agenda, Mr Secretary of State. Hungarian security of supply cannot be separated from Hungarian food security. Other examples: the British have had a very serious delay in salad and vegetables in recent months. 95 percent of the tomatoes they consume, 90 percent of the salad is imported, and enough is a slightly worse weather in Spain or, say, in Morocco, a flood, in the main area of purchasing resources, in order to endanger everyday security of supply in a number of countries or half continents. And what we see is that the Dutch example is sobering, especially for Hungarians, if we look at how many imported products we have on the food front. In the Netherlands, due to the high gas prices, producers began to reduce greenhouse cultivation because it was less and less worth it, and some farmers sold their gas quotas directly, because they found this sale more profitable and considered it more profitable than the heating of greenhouses. So what we're seeing is that this global supply system is really built on supersuppliers. There are types of crops on which the supply of three or four large countries affects the global market. In recent days, we are also experiencing what security of supply disruptions can be caused by the loss of a larger market segment, whether in Ukraine or in other markets. Once again, this system of just in time is good for a small shock to cause bigger problems even at global level. So if we focus on the Hungarian situation, when and how can a nation state act best? If you are able to guarantee your self-sufficiency as much as possible. And the problem in Hungary is that if a single customer enters a hypermarket, he may now find a higher proportion of Hungarian products on paper than, say, ten years ago, but still not enough. Today, when a package of five or six paprikas can cost more than a thousand forints, when a piece of snake cucumber can cost 400-500-600 forints, we need to see that in a country with a basic agricultural base the everyday sense of consumer safety, which is also part of the security of supply, is not necessarily achieved. Because you can say, Mr Secretary of State, that the opposition representative does not say that there is no when there is. Yes, but if it is at a price that is priceless or difficult to afford for an ever-expanding, expanding circle, it is also a security of supply issue for me, even a security of supply vacuum. What I'm saying is that in a self-respecting, agricultural-based country, food self-determination is not an expendable achievement. And I also see that the explosive increase in food prices has reached an EU record in recent months and years, and this EU record could now have been managed in the package amending the budget. At the same time, I do not see that the government would have wanted to deal with this, which is very harsh, because if we look at the expectations of the VAT revenue line and the revenues realised, we see that the VAT expectation was HUF 3 thousand and then HUF 5200 billion, which went up to 7,000 and then to some 7900 billion. So thousands of billions of unexpected extras have appeared in the budget in recent years. This could have been used to reduce VAT on basic foods and to develop a monitoring system that guarantees that after a VAT reduction the trader does not swallow the difference but remains with the citizens. It is no coincidence that the countries of Europe have competed on how to help families, citizens. And I am going to mention a word about agricultural enterprises, because Hungary has been criticised in recent months for the fact that the productivity of agricultural enterprises is so low that this makes it very difficult to recover from this situation. Some European countries have set out to allow small and medium-sized enterprises to pay VAT for a period of time. This would be possible even in the case of enterprises linked to Hungarian agriculture in these days. I am interested in Mr State Secretary's professional opinion on how to benefit them, because this is all a question relating to security of supply. It's very good to open the gates before the World Food Program. I'm going to get you to support this, to be a part of it, but we still have our own country, which we have sworn to serve and represent, and our own security of supply raises huge questions. So I urge you to talk much more bravely about the domestic situation, the VAT on basic foods should be zeroed as soon as possible, at least until the end of the crisis, and then we should sit down here and talk about it further, and even for micro, small or even medium-sized enterprises linked to agriculture, we should be able to get a discount through the system on the front of the VAT system that will give us a measurable ease. If you do this, you can also be proud of the experts of the World Food Programme and say that you have done everything you can for your own country. That's what I'm trying to get you to do. Thank you for your attention and patience, Mr President.
u2023-03-07-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa applied to be the lead speaker. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would not broaden the framework for the general debate with the subjects of Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. They are undoubtedly important topics, we approach them in different ways and we have other proposals for solutions. I think that this is rather the area of the Ministry of Agriculture, and it must be brought up in the debate on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, honourable Member. I'd be happy to come and argue with you on these matters. But when you point the questions of certain forms of support for agriculture to the Secretary of State responsible for security policy, you obviously don't mean that either. This is an important debate that needs to be discussed on another agenda. What we are talking about here is the bill between the Government of Hungary and the World Food Programme to announce the agreement on the establishment of the Global Business Service Centre. So the government came here for the approval of an international treaty by Parliament. After all, we see that the 21st edition of the European Union Sadly, in a globalised world of the century, hunger would not be reduced, but there would be an increase in the number of hungry people worldwide every day, every year. Today, the number of hungry people has increased globally to over seven hundred million, one in ten people is starving, and on a global scale the number of people in Hungary is growing by about ten million per year, and at least three billion people cannot afford a healthy daily diet. It is particularly outrageous and disappointing that, while the number of hungry people is so enormously high, according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation survey, almost one third of global food produced is lost, some 1.3 billion tonnes. So the world is also hit by an increasing number of famines and a huge waste of food with a huge environmental burden. [[16.10]] With the war in Ukraine and sanctions against Russia, the suffering of the famine-stricken population continues to increase, as the two prominent food-producing countries of the world cannot contribute to the world's food supply with the previous amount of food. To reduce hunger, to support hundreds of millions of hungry people in need, the World Food Programme was established, led by David Beasley, former Republican governor, who was once welcomed here in Budapest as a guest of the parliamentary prayer group. The World Food Programme, the World Food Programme, is the world's largest multilateral food aid organisation established by the United Nations and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation in Rome in 1961. The World Food Programme has helped 128 million people in 88 countries in 2021, thereby also contributing to the reduction of mass migration. The operation of the World Food Programme is fully financed through voluntary offerings, with a record grant of USD 9.35 billion from donors in 2021. According to the organisation's calculations, some 152 million people were granted aid in 2022. Hungary is a member of the governing body of the World Food Programme, the Executive Board, which provides intergovernmental support for the political management and supervision of the activities of the World Food Programme and is also a member of the executive committee. The objectives of the World Food Programme are basically the same as those of Hungarian foreign policy, since refugees must be provided with care in close proximity to their home or in neighbouring countries in order to be able to return to their homes as soon as possible. In October 2022, the World Food Programme informed the government that it would like to set up a financial services department in Budapest called Global Payments Solution, which would take over around 70% of the organization's accounts and payments. The World Food Programme is planned to employ 81 people from the end of 2023, at least 85% of local employees from Budapest, Hungary. The bill before us contains the publication of an agreement containing it. We are convinced that the Hungarian capital is an excellent location for international organisations, especially the headquarters and service centres of the UN and its specialised institutions. The World Food Programme envisages the relocation of individual functions in several phases, the global organisation would first install financial functions in Budapest, but in the medium term it would consider expanding the centre with further activities. I think a good goal is worth supporting. In Hungary, many international organisations already have their headquarters or certain centres, Hungary and Budapest have always been good owners and hosts of these organisations, and I believe that the common goals, the management of migration in the issuing countries, the eradication of world hunger, the eradication of hunger are all goals that we can support, and therefore the KDNP fraction will also support the current bill. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Péter András Sztáray says no.]] He doesn't want to. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the bill amending the rules on declarations of assets in order to reach agreement with the European Commission until closure. The government referral is T/3131. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As has already been said between the walls of this House, a difficult but extremely constructive and forward-looking conciliation process took place between the Government of Hungary and the European Commission for several months, under the so-called Conditionality Mechanism. I must point out that the Hungarian Government remains committed to implementing the measures on the basis of a timetable agreed with the Commission. In recent years, the Hungarian Government has sought to implement and implement the commitments made to the European Commission, for which it has presented several proposals to this House. This line also includes the bill to be discussed. Dear Parliament, The bill before us would, on the basis of the achievements of digitalisation, transpose the compromise solutions established with the Commission into the Hungarian legal system in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, thereby laying down the detailed rules for access to property declarations in a searchable manner. Therefore, the bill would allow a Member of Parliament to submit his declaration of assets electronically in the future, which would be digitised by the administrator of the declaration of assets. The bill would also set precise deadlines for access to declarations of assets in a searchable manner. With regard to the rules presented above, it should be pointed out that they relate to Members of Parliament and to political senior leaders. If the statement of the parliamentary representative or political senior manager is submitted on a paper basis, it shall be digitised by the administrator of the declaration of assets. The person making the property declaration may at any time indicate to the administrator of the property declaration that the digitised version is not the same as the one he submitted on a paper basis, in which case the administrator of the asset declaration must remedy the difference in the digitised version. If, however, there is a difference between the content of the paper-based asset statement submitted and the digitised asset declaration, the paper-based asset statement submitted shall be deemed to be relevant. Dear House, The bill would clarify the need to include foreign assets in the declarations of assets. Although this is already to be understood in the light of the provisions in force, Hungary has undertaken, in consultation with the Commission, to present this case law in a specific, textual way in the legislation, a requirement that has been consistently applied. In addition, the bill contains technical clarifications in connection with certain laws on judicial matters and with the law on public trust foundations. Dear House, The Government, as constructive and trust-based cooperation with the Commission, supports this, remains committed to achieving and implementing the commitments made to the European Commission. The bill is intended to bring the agreement between the government and the Commission to a legal level, in order to give the Hungarian people the resources they need, I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Boglárka Illés. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-03-07-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, With the bill before us, we have arrived at another stage of the dramatic ordeal that has been going on for almost a year or another episode of the Brussels sitcom, and the future will decide. The fact is, however, that they drive the car loaded with the resources of Hungarians, and they always pull the government in a different direction at the last minute. We may have a legitimate feeling that even if we build the right path, they will buy a hairpin pile again and again in an unjustified, untraceable and unreasonable way. We will not give up, and we will now cover another section of the road, because, as requested by the Commission, we will also lay down the detailed rules for access to declarations of assets in a searchable manner; pressure is set at 17+1. We also send a message: it won't depend on us, we'll pay the price, even if they want to put out fires in places where there may not be any, thus diverting attention from the real problems. But all right, with the detailed instructions for use of the fire extinguishing equipment, we're gonna dump the entire road. We are already discussing the manyth bill, which the government, in cooperation with the Commission, has developed in accordance with their requests in order to give the Hungarian people the resources they deserve. It may seem that they have grown to an endless extent, as they are always making new demands to Hungary. But it is not up to us to give the Hungarian people the resources they deserve. It can also be clear to laymen: Brussels uses the procedure as a political instrument, accumulates objections and brings our country to new demands. [[16.20]] We are trying to achieve them by scratching the boundaries of reason, because the goal is, as I have already said, that the Hungarian people will receive the funds they deserve, even if the dollar left in Brussels creates a mood against the Hungarians; even if they are working to withdraw EU funds for Hungary from the Hungarian people; even if they are motivated or forced to do other work by the rolling dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that anyone who is so disrespectful to Hungarian people either does not know what European unity means or knows, but turns his back on him. In order for Europe not only to be a geographical category, but also a political effort, a long way has led, and, as they say, it must not only be possible to obtain it, but it must also be able to keep it. That is why we stand for European unity, even if we have different views on certain key issues. That is why we are fulfilling our European defence obligations, even if we have to pay for it, or we have to bear its costs. And that's why we're going to remain a reliable party at the negotiating table even when we're not even experiencing the appearance of fairness anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe can remain a common cultural tradition if we realise what is holding this community together and what is nebulizing this community. The content and Community interpretation of European civilisation can and should remain only on the basis of mutual respect between the Member States of the European Union, which the European Commission must serve and not disintegrate. That is why we have put forward this proposal, and that is why we are indicating that Hungary has already made all the commitments and proposals that the European Commission has asked for from us. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the bill of amendment tabled by the government. An early agreement with the European Commission is in the interest of all of us. The agreement with the European Commission is clearly a prerequisite for the Hungarian people to receive the funds they deserve, but we respectfully ask the representatives of the European Commission to contribute to it in the same way and also show respect for Hungary. At the same time, I call on my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-07-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is László Sebian-Petrovsk. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I admit, I have a feeling about déjà vu, that Parliament has become the place where some of us have been sitting around for about two or three months, and we have been debating the declarations of assets for a year now. I could say that this could be a good thing, because if we sat here because we wanted to make it better and better, and the government put forward proposals for the purpose of making the institution of declarations of assets better and better, then we would be happy to sit here and reopen the issue every two or three months. But it's not really this. It's not the story that's been going on for a year, it's the fact that Fidesz has been trying to permanently transform a previously unperfect but functioning asset declaration system. He even tried to take out the minimum possibilities for the public to know what wealth the Members of Parliament and other state leaders had gained in a year, and then he hit the wall that he did, but Brussels said he was finally standing on his feet and said that he had done so and no longer. A member of the European Union, a democracy, cannot do that a piece of cheese paper is about what the honourable Members call a declaration of property. Yes, just to mention what was going on in the last year: did we not, for the first time in June and July last summer, when we were remembered as part of a large package, this was the package, in which there were a lot of parliamentary amendments that were bad for the opposition, and therefore Fidesz was very pleased to have the declaration of property converted into that package, and yes, I understand that my fellow Members here are rebelling, but in fact, the declaration of property was classified as a cheese paper. The former 18-20 pages of paper became a one-page piece, but perhaps two maximums, which in no way showed the wealth, were actually a certificate of income, but it was not even possible to call it that. This is where we, opposition representatives, including DK, sat and said that this is not a good direction, this is not what should happen in a normal country. We said it wouldn't be good, and that we had to protest against it at all costs. We voted 'no', you voted 'no'. What happened? Two months later, in September, we had to sit here again on the same subject, because then, when we had met the EU wall, they tried to undo the certain amendment that they had beaten through Parliament in the summer and to re-create an annual declaration of assets. They've been reclaimed as regular forms, and they've had to re-enact family members. You remember, fellow Members of the Fidesz, there was a recovery that the opposition, including DK, once again said that we were going in the right direction, but that should not have been done if the amendment had not been made in the summer, but it is still not good; but it still contains many exceptions, but we are still not talking about a declaration of assets that makes sense. We have said, for example, that the publicity of family members' declarations of property is not, to be more precise: the declarations of property are not public to family members, and there are a number of issues in which further changes are needed. The government refused to accept them, the Fidesz majority of Parliament accepted this amendment, and DK voted no again. A month later, we were sitting here again, and we were sitting here again in November, gentlemen, we were forced to renegotiate declarations of property, and again the government was forced to amend the bill that had been amended several times before, because it turned out that even what had been done earlier was not good and was brought before the House. What did we say then? This was the amendment in which agricultural land or land did not have to be admitted when it was used for permanent residence... so one could be left out of the list. We said it wasn't gonna work again. Again, it's not gonna work. It was the exact same division, and I was standing here, and I said my criticisms, and Mr. Secretary of State was sitting there and he said, "But how good is this going to be again?" So what do we do now? We are here in March, and we have reopened the issue of declarations of assets, and the government is forced to re-submit a proposal on how and how the declarations of assets should be made, so to speak, to tighten up the financial situation and make the Members of Parliament's income even more transparent. I'm not happy that there's such a story. I'd be happy if we touched such an important institution once, that would be nicely, properly done and regulated, and then used to everyone's satisfaction. But, of course, this is not in Fidesz's interest, which is shown by the fact that it does not come from honesty, it is not because you want a better country, you want a more transparent, transparent political operation, because the title of the last two amendments was already about wanting to make these amendments in order to agree with the European Commission, and they are not in their right mind to do so because otherwise it will improve the functioning of the country. So, naturally, this bill is not sincere, nor is it intended. Then let me mention, since we have brought in Brussels as an impact, that if I count it correctly, we are four days after the referral. So, again, we are discussing a bill that, if I remember correctly, was submitted by the government on Friday afternoon, and now we are discussing it on Tuesday afternoon, while we were discussing it, and there was also an amendment of the law here, and there was also an EU criticism that was about the fact that the SOS, the rapid legislation, except for some very extreme cases, is not appropriate, it is not right, it is not good, it is not good, it is not good for legislative work. [[16.30]] How and how can good laws be born if the government pushes laws of this importance through Parliament in a few days? I'll tell you what, no way. But they have done it again, we are here again, and it has been just a few days again that experts and civil society organisations have to deal with this proposal in any way. The bill itself, its essence, is to digitise the declarations of property; either it is submitted electronically by the Member of Parliament or, if not submitted, digitize and publish it in a searchable manner. That's a great idea, that's a very good idea, without any cynical side effects. I have one problem with him saying this for about four years, DK, that this is how it should be done. Last time... my Fidesz fellow Member smiles, yesterday I reread the minutes of our last debate, feel free to look at it, as I said, digitization is the 21st. It's not from the devil, let's do this. Civil society organisations have been demanding in Hungary for about ten years that political and parliamentary representatives come up in searchable form, because it is impossible or very difficult to assess what the change is. Now the government has finally come to the point where it has included these amendments in this proposal. So this is a step in the right direction, and I would also say to Mr Secretary of State when he listens to me, so this is definitely a step in the right direction. The problem is that most of the bill, look at the package of proposals before us, most of the paragraphs actually contain exceptions, because only the Members of Parliament will now be subject to this law, not to the heads of the SAO, not to the NAIH, not to the members of the Constitutional Court, and I could list the main prosecutor, the head of the Curia, and the practitioners of those powers, the institutions, authorities, heads of offices that would, of course, play an independent role in a normally functioning democracy, independent of the government. However, in the last 13 years, and especially in the first few years, it has become a pillar of your exercise of power that has been occupied by these institutions. Today, these institutions are subsidiaries of Fidesz and the government, using them through the SAO from NAIH to convey the intentions that Fidesz decides to pursue in its political interests. As a politician of the opposition party, I could tell you how the SAO, NAIH and other authorities mediate the will to make opposition parties impossible, prevent them from operating, do whatever it takes to make it difficult to represent their electorate in any way. But these leaders, therefore, who have a very clear political role to play today, this amendment removes from the scope of the declaration of assets that the amendment will not, therefore, apply even to them, even though they deserve to be said in this way. If I go further along this trail, we can see that whitening, towards transparency, does not take the step to make the family's property declaration public in any way. This is an old proposal from a number of civil society organisations, civil society organisations that are experts in the fight against corruption, and have been giving opinions for decades on, for example, our asset declaration system. Several parties, including DK, suggest that it would now be expected that our politicians and the family members of our state leaders will also be known, because otherwise, situations such as those we know from the press have happened, that some politicians have transferred assets to their children, grandchildren, wives and other family members. So, formally, their declaration of wealth was fine, of course, but in the meantime, the family became wealthy with a good number, and in an inexplicable way, and in a worse way, I say, not in an honest way, not by law. This proposal does not even touch on this issue, nor does it even put a slight step into the law as to what happens to family members. Finally, I have two small remarks. It is not proposed that checks on declarations of assets are still not in order. I understand that you have an Integrity Authority, and I understand that you have already installed powers with the Data Protection Authority with the last amendment. I understand that we are talking about the offices and authorities that we run everywhere, so that we have no fidesz representative or state leader to slap his ankle. But in fact, if it turns out that someone's asset statement shows that he has a wealth that can't be explained by his confessed income, then it's not really properly regulated what's going on, there's no such thing as a retortion against him. This law would have given them an opportunity to settle this, too. Finally, let me make one last comment. I've mentioned the civilians several times. There are several civil society organisations in this area, which I now say for a long time, not by accident, that have been explaining their work for decades. Their hearing did not even take place in this case, and the government did not even attempt to channel the professional knowledge of civilians in any way into this amendment; I note that we are not in the past, but we are beyond that. There was still a chance for this to happen. Of course, the speedy legislation of SOS makes it difficult to do so, but that is why it would have been necessary to make this a mature, good, good behaviour and a bill reflecting it. One word, as a hundred, in summary, I can say that we see the activities of Fidesz, who is not honest with Fidesz, not serving the purpose, but in total, bringing Brussels funds back to Hungary and, in my opinion, who is interested in stealing them, here. This proposal is a step in the right direction, but it is not sufficient, it is not an appropriate step, and we will therefore not be able to support it on the part of DK. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-07-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Listening to the sentences of the former DK lead speaker, I would not be surprised if this series of changes to the declaration of assets continued, because in this case the practice is to excite Members in the European Parliament, Klára Dobrev and the others, and persuade the decision-makers there to continue this story. Here's the sound that gave them ammunition. They will put their representatives of the European Parliament to work, who know what kind of declaration of assets they will make. When you were talking about [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] that the direction when the property declaration was made up of one or two pages was wrong, it was still four or five pages [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But then the Hungarian Parliament took over the order of property declaration that Klára Dobrev and others exercised in the European Parliament. Then we have come up with this solution because we have been listening to the gibberish from the West of Brussels for about ten years that there is a problem with the Hungarian declaration system. We wanted to solve the problem, well, if we have a problem with ours, then we will do what we are told from the centre of the rule of law, the European Parliament. When we did this, the European Commission asked us to go back to the old practice because it was more diverse, more transparent, more grabbing, and they were right. Now I do not see any further restrictions in this system, which simply creates the possibility of digitisation in relation to declarations of assets. You are right, Congressman, that there have been some people who have been urging us to do this for a long time, which we are now taking in this bill. A week or two ago, I do not remember the date exactly, through an online event, through a conference, in connection with the rule of law dialogue, we had discussions with experts from the European Commission on the Hungarian declaration of assets system. My colleague, Mr Barna, was also with me at this event, and he was vice-president of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at this online event, but it was basically about the declaration of assets system. Since there were experts on the other side, there was no debate between us. If the whole procedure had been conducted with MEPs, there would obviously not have been an identity among us, but these experts, therefore experts from the Commission, could also look into what I am saying in the minutes, at this event, it was found that the Hungarian declaration of assets system, yesterday's pre-amendment system, was one of the most comprehensive and richest of the Member States of the European Union. [[16.40]] We've only confirmed that since then, if you will. So there is no difference of opinion between us and the experts in this regard. What shows that the Hungarian system is far more comprehensive than most European Member States, not to mention the European Parliament? Once it's time. How many times do we make a statement? We do when we're elected congressman. We do it at the beginning of each year, we make a final declaration of assets when we finish our parliamentary work. On the other hand, MEPs make a statement at the beginning of the term and make a statement at the end of the term, if you will. Think back to our year 22 and I told the experts that, in 22 the Hungarian Member of Parliament basically did nothing but make declarations of assets, and if he had some time, he dealt with something else. In 22 we made a declaration of wealth at the beginning of the year, as it was a change of parliamentary term, and we made a final declaration of wealth. The new Parliament is on its way, we have carried out a new declaration of assets, and we have made another declaration of property. Then we made a brief attempt to take over the European Parliament's practice, and so, with the deadline of 5 August, we recreated a property declaration. And then, at the end of the year, not at the end of the year, the Hungarian Member of Parliament has recently reclaimed his assets. Tell me another country on Earth where this can happen. The Hungarian Parliament also fulfils these conditions, and we get criticism from a place where nothing like this happens, not even close. And given the content of the declaration of assets, how richer the system is; and here again I am reaching back to what the Member said earlier on behalf of DK, yes, the practice of MEPs is that they are only making a declaration of income and a declaration of interest. We used that one time, didn't we? But we are raising the old practice by resuming a substantial asset statement. So we provide comprehensive information about our financial situation, our financial situation, car, craft, aircraft so that Congressman Hadházy has the opportunity to confess his aircraft in a proper box, about art, in-forint savings, foreign currency savings, and other valuables; specifically about our properties. The congressman mentioned this, and we wanted to make it rational; I want to go to the fields. Believe me, what we wanted to achieve so that we did not have to give Members a detailed list of where they have a small piece of land, which makes our system incomprehensible, and we said that we could say per walk that the Member in one district has so many lands. They didn't accept that either. There's nothing like it anywhere else. We're going to show you the whole thing. Because we are showing our land properties in a certain way, the system is almost untraceable for those Members who have hundreds of hectares of land. But that's what we're supposed to do, while there's no other expectations. I am obliged to point out this, because I think that the whole procedure is nothing more than the resources that are due to us; what is due to Hungarian voters, Hungarian taxpayers and Hungarian citizens, they will possibly delay their payment as long as possible, and a means of doing so is to predict the procedures for declaration of assets again and again, and to formulate the demands for amendment. What is in substance in this proposal is not a tightening of content, so the system that we have practiced so far will not change, only in the future our declaration will be digitised, and those who want to do so will be able to earn more easily between our declarations of property. This one has a timeline. If the Member makes the declaration of assets, this digitalisation will take place within eight days, and then the representative will be called to look at the digitised material of the Member's two working days to confirm that the matter is in order or that something has been written down somewhere, and if this two-day deadline has passed, then there will be five more days for the final material to be released to the public in a digitised form. So, overall, this will pay back in 15 days in this respect, and obviously the amendment to the bill indicates who is doing this work; it gives the government the authority to lay down further detailed rules on this subject. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, What I am asking you to say is that the system that we are applying in Europe is incredibly rich in the practice of the Member States of Europe, obviously it could be enriched even further, but in the European Union it would also be expected that all legislation should be somewhat approximated and harmonised. Let's see the extreme. I am convinced that one of the extremes is Hungarian practice, the richness of Hungarian practice, and the other extreme from which we get criticism, and this is the practice of MEPs, the European Parliament, which is, in fact, nothing compared to ours, a cheese paper. And I am afraid to hear him say that the process will not end, even further ideas can be formulated from here, whispering from the House to Brussels, to create further obstacles to Hungary's not getting access to these resources that we deserve. One thing is certain: the declaration of assets procedure will certainly never fall within the area where we crucify ourselves, where we are in conflict with the European Parliament or the European Commission. If new ideas come, we will also deliver, because it is in the best interests of the country to obtain these resources. For some of my fellow Members, I believe DK to be like this, I urge them to use their influence, so that this series of proceedings can be completed here in the Hungarian Parliament in relation to the declarations of assets, and there should not be any obstacle to Hungary's access to the resources we deserve. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-07-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the group of our country is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this debate stretches over time, and it is rather unpleasant, rather embarrassing, that it must be repeated over and over again with a considerable frequency. It is as the President of the Commission Hargitai said, with the deadline of 31 January 2022, the deadline of 31 May 2022 or the deadline of 2 June 2022, the deadline of 5 August 2022 and the deadline of 31 January 2023 for Members of Parliament and certain state leaders on 31 December 2022. So the most powerful declaration of assets system I am willing to believe is that Hungarians have no strong defence function either from the point of view of transparency or the public, since let's be honest with you, most of them, if you like, are honor-based, honor-based or integrity-based. Of course, sharp-eyed investigative journalists can look into a lot of things, especially if there's secret service support behind them, as well as a backwind of the Secret Service, but even without such a special backwind. But let's be honest, if we look a little deeper, if we tighten it up even further, it would be difficult to verify, without breaking the law, exactly what amount is included in the bank account of a Member of Parliament and, by the way, a close relative living with him in the same household. [[16.50]] Obviously, those who have nothing to fear bravely write up a more prestigious amount than the Hungarian average income or the average income situation. So if you think about the basis on which this could be refuted, whether a journalist or any other person would have to commit some sort of crime. The least revealing question is cash. As long as the cash is not eliminated or eliminated by globalist pressure, I know that it seems to be a fantasy, but in the direction in which the world is going under pressure from the World Economic Forum, and what we have had to experience in the past, starting from the Covid dictatorship, until the Russian-American war, which forms an integral part of the plan, in the Ukrainian territory, but until now, it is not possible to reject the possibility of introducing the institution of exclusive electronic money, and then, as a private person, as a natural person, and now, as an integral part of the Hungarian people's experience, the kind of ingenuity is not an integral part of the Hungarian people's invention, but also a great deal of Hungarian ingenuity or intelligence, as well, because the reason why we sincerely admit it is not as a politician, but as a private person, I declare it is an integral part of the Hungarian people's experience, which has helped the nation to survive today, and we are also able to speak in our plenary of the past centuries. However, if this is removed, not only is transparency increasing, because that would not be a problem, but there is virtually a complete total control. But what exists in cash is basically self-requisition based on whether the real data is displayed by the congressman or not. Plus, there's an obvious change. Earlier, up until August last year, an amount exceeding the basic salary of its six-month representatives had to be shown. Now, if I understand it correctly, the cash in the Members' office or in the close relatives will have to be indicated from 1 forint onwards. So now this rule-breaking over six months, if you will, has become more stringent. But it is also very difficult to follow up on the credibility of many data. The easiest thing to do is to look at real estate, whether it is residential property, family house, apartment or outskirts, and it is typically land, because it is quite easy to track it from publicly available, publicly available real estate registration data, whether in the context of personal administration at land offices, or in the online space, it is quite easy to track down that the representative has accounted for all real estates, so it is likely that the savings recorded in the bank account, current account or any other account related to investment fund management, government bonds, possibly in euros, dollars, who knows what currency savings are quite difficult to go after. The exploration of real estate, the control of real estate assets are much easier from a journalist's point of view or other control. However, this is not the most important pillar of the anti-corruption system, since, let's say, tightening up our public procurement system would be more important, as thousands of billions of forints are spent each year on public procurement channels, large money flows there, disappears or disappears there, especially in connection with, say, service orders or works. I do not think that a Member of Parliament with less intellectual and weaker political abilities, who is trespassing, will manage these funds in a public way, so it is very naive to think that even a strict declaration of assets system will answer anything. This is, in this sense, a pseudo-debate, especially with Hungary actually taking the lead in this regard, and one of them, if not using the strictest declaration of assets. But even this very strong, very strict, very detailed, very much-data property declaration system is a weak line of defense towards the discovery of black money or even gray money. This will require much more serious means to reveal, say, the misdeeds of our fellow Members who have been trespassed. I cannot stop here, in this debate, so that I do not refer to a case that we are now looking at: Mr Pál Völner's dirty affairs were not revealed by his declarations of property, but by the fact that, considering his wide-ranging business with common sense, his amateur accomplices have revealed it, exposed it, and, on the basis of what Congressman Völner has indicated, we are talking about quite considerable wealth, there has not yet been any proceedings against it. So this is one of the indirect or transferable evidence that it is not up to the easing or tightening of the declaration of assets system that Hungarian politics is cleansed and various illegal wealth increases are revealed. A real confrontation with DK and the left in general is that, if this Parliament introduced the system of declaration of assets that the European Parliament has been applying for a long time without breaking, even more stringently in the sense that, on the basis of the rules in force on 5 August, an annual declaration of assets should have been made to Hungarian Members of Parliament and state leaders, as has been said here, and in the European Parliament, at the beginning of the cycle and at the end of the cycle, and not four but five years would have passed between the two, then indeed, even the Hungarian system would have been stricter than the one that the European Parliament would have applied, which was then traced back to the financial status of 31 December, and that was mainly more stringent. So there may be one thing that can be seen here that, in fact, Brussels is looking for a knot in the cafeteria, and obviously, if it is searching for a long time, it will find it, and it will try to prevent every existing, often said, by its hair, by using a war term, if it pleases, once we are living in wartime times, the financial supply line will be bombed and these EU funds destroyed. Undoubtedly, not only the system of declaration of assets in Hungary is extremely strict in this respect, we could even be proud of ourselves if we were to be top keepers in this regard, but unfortunately also the extent of corruption. Let's just be fair to each other. We shouldn't keep this quiet. And that's why EU funds, domestic funds, when we may have reasonable suspicions of which removal and a good share of them. Another issue is that, according to the Hungarian Movement, this should be resolved in national jurisdiction, which, of course, is already hindered by the parties of government, just as we say about the arrival of the Brussels money, the Hungarian and international left. In the end, the Hungarian people will be the victims of this. So it is possible to squabble here to the right, left, Balliberals, Conservatives, Christian Democrats with each other, and the end will be that, with such a period of war, there will be such a cumulative serious situation that the funds needed for Hungary's operation, for example, to develop the energy and electricity grid, will be put at risk. It is a fact that this will not depend on loosening or tightening up the declaration of assets, but on achieving some political agreement, and then perhaps in Brussels there will be fewer types of attitude that earn a knot. By the way, I suspect that it is a much more serious issue than the Hungarian declaration of assets system, such as the promotion of Swedish and Finnish NATO accession, let us say, a more serious condition for the arrival of funds in Brussels than the relaxation or tightening up of this system of declaration of assets. So I really hope that this cycle will no longer have to be dealt with. Our Homeland Movement is subject to all kinds of declaration of property obligations. We have done this in accordance with reality, truth, and authentic data, and there is no reason to keep secrets. However, it really makes me wonder that the indication of land ownership data may in many cases give rise to journalistic slippages, because it is not every journalist tries to properly investigate the wealth growth of a representative in accordance with the rules of journalistic ethics, and this situation becomes more serious if he does not understand the nature of land ownership, especially if he is converted into square meters of real data and one of the journalists of our story comes to the wrong conclusion that he is trying to compare it to the land prices in Buda, Pest or Pest County, on this basis to compare what land could be worth. [[17.00]] At the beginning of my parliamentary career, I myself faced the fact that a few ten hectares of my own land, even in the year 2010-11, was estimated by a close acquaintance to 800 hectares, not by a journalist. I would have been extremely happy to have 800 acres of land. The other common misunderstanding is that many undivided common-owned land has a small share of a representative's ownership, but if the journalist or the suspicious observer only gets, say, to the full extent of the space and reads the line in our declaration of property, he may think that a 1/1 exclusive clean property belongs to one of the Members, say, a 50 or 200 or hundreds of hectares table. If you could just scroll down a little bit and see if you could just see if there's a fraction of 1/27 or what I know, I own 1/72 parts of the property, and you'd be relieved to know, oops, it's a much smaller value, a much smaller amount of property with much smaller traffic value, and the location of the girl is quite different. But if you understand that the undivided common is as if in 1/1 the Member owns it, this is a very serious reason for misunderstandings and not one, not two, of such mash-ups, often due to unprepared mash-ups. So it would really be more transparent and uniform to put this system in place, either according to districts, settlements, or according to some more uniform, blockable directorial principle. Here, a practically sane Member does not take the risk of skipping fields, because, as I said, unlike cash or possible savings recorded in different currencies in different accounts, this can be checked without special investigative journalistic expertise. It is enough to enter the TakarNet system or to go through some district land offices diligently and even traditionally, walk on paper to mark the exact amount of land owned by a particular Member or his relatives. This would indeed be justified, but the unviable thinking in Brussels has no idea of the rules of the Hungarian real estate register. It often tightens up where it doesn't make any sense and doesn't allow facilitation where there's no possibility of fraud, or at least with a very high chance of getting caught, it might be possible to give false data to one of the Members, make a false statement, and they're not going to allow it there. So, in that sense, it's a fake dispute and a nebula. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-07-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. This concludes the speech of the lead speaker. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, we have been discussing the amendments to the laws on property declarations for many times. Why we have come to this situation, we have heard it at different readings from the opposition side and from the pro-government side. Allow me to consider the speech of Mrs Boglárka Elijah as a credible source, because it really happened as she said. However, on behalf of the Government, I will continue to emphasise a constructive dialogue with the Commission, despite the fact that, of course, it is not a good thing to bring the same law before this House many times, to make new amendments in the same law, and we cannot even rule out what was also said to be the last. Unfortunately, I'm not sure. However, I would like to point out that the current amendment does not actually change the content of the declarations of assets, but makes digitalisation and searchability possible. Even though we would refer to the fact that the declarations of property have been well-earned so far, because the journalist who, let's say, has spent more than an hour on it has probably found a declaration of assets and was able to compare it with the declarations of assets of previous years, for example, that Parliamentary Members' declarations of assets can be found in their names every year, practically every year since 2011. Since the forms themselves have not changed, so it is not so complicated to compare, it is true that this will now be much simpler and not an hour, but, let's say, ten minutes is enough to allow someone to follow the changes. I can't promise you that this is going to mean the world or not. In any case, in a little response to why we have not consulted civilians, honourable Member Sebian-Petrovsk, we will forward this criticism to the European Commission, as the European Commission has required us to make these amendments. Surely the European Commission is not interested in the views of civilians, we can say, or perhaps they already knew in advance what the views of civilians were. [[Dr. János Harghitai: This latter is true!]] Could be, yeah. Dear House, Thank you very much for listening, and please support the bill.
u2023-03-07-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it was possible to submit amendments until the general debate was concluded. We now have a general debate on the bill on complaints, announcements of public interest and rules on whistleblowing pending closure. The government referral is T/3089. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On 28 February 2023 the Government submitted a bill on complaints, announcements of public interest and rules on whistleblowers. The basis of the bill is, on the one hand, Article XXV of the Fundamental Law. Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the protection of persons declaring infringements of Union law, as guaranteed by Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the one hand, and of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the other. The fundamental right under the Fundamental Law is currently guaranteed by our 2013 law, the law on complaints and announcements of public interest. The content of this, following an assessment of the experience gained in the application of the law, is included in the bill before you, with a small wrinkle lift. Our starting point in the preparation was the continued use of mechanisms and procedures in connection with the handling of complaints and announcements of public interest. Accordingly, the proposal does not change substantially the system of complaints and announcements of public interest under the right to petition: complaints and announcements of public interest continue to be regulated as an auxiliary legal institution while leaving the basic rules unchanged. Dear House, In the bill, the substantive novelty is the provisions for compliance with our obligations to harmonise legislation. Next, I would like to present some of the node elements of the regulation. The first essential element of the proposal is the regulation of the so-called internal abuse reporting system. According to the directive to be harmonised, Member States, including our country, should require a wide range of private employers to establish a communication channel where employees can report infringements they experience and then investigate such notifications. Under the directive, employers with more than 250 employees are bound by the bill to create this system, but the government has not used these rules for employers with a lower number of employees, taking advantage of all derogations. On the one hand, the proposal would make use of the facilitations granted by the Directive for entities employing between 50 and 249 employees, according to which they would be sufficient to fulfil this obligation as of 17 December 2023, and could create a common internal abuse reporting system, thereby reducing the burden on smaller undertakings. On the other hand, the government does not want to increase the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises with a staff of less than 50 persons, so the proposal does not use the option provided for in the directive to extend this obligation to the scope indicated. [[17.10]] The bill regulates the provisions of the Directive in detail, following the guarantee rules on the functioning of the internal whistle-blower system, the main issues relating to the making, receiving and handling of notifications, and the rules on the control of the operation of the internal whistle-blower reporting system. Here, too, the government's aim was to ensure a simpler and smoother regulatory environment for stakeholders within the framework of the directive. Dear Parliament, The operation of the internal abuse reporting system must be mandatory not only in the private sector but also in the public sector, while the directive was less benevolent with public and municipal actors in terms of the potential for derogation. The Internal Abuse Notification System should, in principle, be established by all public sector entities under the Directive and by all entities owned or controlled by them. This obligation is also required by the bill for the bodies concerned. On the basis of the Directive, Member States may, however, exempt municipalities with less than 10 000 inhabitants from this obligation, local government bodies with fewer than 50 employees, or bodies owned or controlled by public bodies or local authorities. The bill makes use of this derogation and, in accordance with the directive, the bill also ensures that several municipalities operate an internal system of whistle-blower reporting. With these, the government intends to reduce the burden on smaller bodies. Dear House, The next important hub for regulation is the so-called separate abuse reporting system. On the basis of the Directive, Member States should designate public bodies or bodies capable of receiving information on infringements as external notification channels. The bill, in line with the scope of the directive, designates the bodies to operate the separate Abuse Notification System, which have tasks and powers in Hungary in the field protected by the EU legal act. With regard to the separate Abuse Notification System, the designated organisations will have a high degree of freedom to carry out practical work, as the Directive allows them to implement in conjunction with their existing systems. The clear starting point for preparing legislation in this case was also the fact that we should not lose practical experience with public bodies in handling public announcements. What is new is the maintenance of the notification system with compliance with certain guarantee elements, but it is clearly a legislative objective to ensure that the conditions and methodology for handling notifications are the same as those already in place. It was also a starting point that it would be easier to make notifications if there were fewer bureaucratic rules and conditions in the proposal. Accordingly, the bill generally requires that all notifications be made and exempts operators of a separate abuse notification system from resolving the complex scope of the directive and, therefore, in many cases, to deal with complaints in a differentiated manner by generating disputes. In this context, it is important to point out that, in most cases, notifications can be examined as a matter of authority, prosecution or other proceedings. For this reason, the bill clearly confirms the rule that, if the legal conditions of the notification are met, the separate abuse notification system should be carried out under the responsibility of the operators and, in other cases, the transfer of the notification to the competent body should be carried out. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, let me briefly talk about the fourth new regulatory element. Undoubtedly, the most complex part of the bill is the regulation on the protection of whistleblowers, which has been dealt with, not out of goodwill, but in order to comply fully with the rules of the directive, with the complexity that you have in front of you. The Directive provides for a wide range of protection in cases where the notifier presents information on the infringement covered by the Directive. Several elements of the protection are detailed in the directive. In particular, the prohibition of retribution, i.e. the fact that the applicant cannot be disadvantaged by making the notification, cannot be reduced or exempted from payment for making the notification. The protection shall also include legal aid for the applicant in the official and judicial proceedings affecting him, the non-compliance with the information notified by him. The Directive requires the protection of notifiers within the scope of their physical and personal scope. The proposed legislation takes these regulatory elements over from the directive, but the aim is to apply these complex rules, not in the context of reporting, but only in the event of a dispute between the notifier and others as a result of the notification, i.e. for example, the applicant being relieved by his employer or reduced his or her salary. In these proceedings, it will be up to the courts, acting authorities, to examine the existence of conditions and to apply the rules on the protection of notifiers. Dear Parliament, The bill is not about penalties for reported cases, but about the protection of whistleblowers. The government also considers it important for Brussels to be able to use the new notification system in order to achieve a higher level of protection of the fundamental values and rights enshrined in the Fundamental Law, as well as the announcements submitted in view of the public interest in defending the Hungarian way of life, thus creating a framework for this. In view of our obligation to harmonise legislation, please support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Demeter. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, A lot has already been said, so I would like to cut back on what I have to say, and I would just like to mention some chapters of a proposal once again. First of all, the main objective of the legislative proposal before us is to ensure harmonisation of EU law, as the proposal serves to comply with the provisions of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law. The aim of the proposal is to lay down Hungarian laws which comply with the provisions of the Directive. The starting point of the regulatory concept was that Hungary was the CLXV of 2013 on complaints and announcements of public interest. To ensure compliance with the Directive by maintaining the legal institutions of law and to establish new legal institutions in the most necessary cases. In accordance with the above starting point, Chapter I of the proposal addresses the rules for lodging and handling complaints and announcements of public interest by recoding the existing complaint law and, where necessary, by major additions due to practical experience. Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data Chapter III of the Directive provides for Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data Chapter 3 of the Act regulates the scope of notifications to achieve a higher level of protection of fundamental values and rights incorporated in the Fundamental Law and to protect the public interests of the Hungarian way of life. Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data Chapter III of the Act on Complaints contains provisions on the protection of whistleblowers in the light of the rules of the Law In addition to the necessary technical regulatory elements, Chapter V of the proposal also proposes clarification of other relevant laws, such as the amendment of the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act. [[17.20]] The second chapter of the proposal for the transposition of the directive cannot be fully summarised along the following main nodes by emphasising the maximum use of the legislative framework provided by the directive in all elements of the transposition legislation. As has already been said, on the basis of obligations for private sector employers, it does not intend to increase the burden of small and medium-sized enterprises not exceeding 50 persons in employment with this regulation, so it does not use the option provided for in the directive to extend this obligation to the scope indicated. The legal entities employing 50-249 employees can then establish a common internal notification channel, reducing the burden on smaller undertakings and ensuring that the obligation to establish an internal notification channel is fulfilled as from 17 December 2023. It has also been said that entities with 250 employees are obliged to operate an internal system of whistle-blower reporting. On the basis of obligations for public-sector employers, the internal abuse reporting system should, in principle, be established by all public sector entities operating under the Directive and by all entities owned or controlled by entities. Under the Directive, Member States may exempt municipalities with less than 10 000 inhabitants from this obligation, local government bodies with fewer than 50 employees, or bodies owned or controlled by public bodies. Finally, the proposal covers obligations for the public sector employer and the functioning of the separate abuse reporting system. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your attention and for supporting this proposal on the basis of what has been said. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2023-03-07-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is László Sebian-Petrovsk. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-143	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, We are discussing a subject that could be good for citizens. We could be looking at a proposal about citizens with problems, problems and problems, and how they can turn to certain offices, with the government finding solutions to those problems, a body of public administration. There is a reason for this EU directive, the transposition of which is, in fact, the reason for this proposal. Its purpose is to ensure that there are a number of such processes and processes in Hungary, so that the information that citizens have in certain cases can somehow be used and reached by the authorities and recipients. The most important area of operation of this mechanism is the fight against corruption. In the fight against corruption, there is typically a great deal of information, there can be at the level of a citizen that is not there, cannot be found elsewhere in the public administration, or there are no interest in getting that information to the appropriate body, so actually putting this EU directive into practice could serve to reduce or reduce corruption in Hungary, so let's take steps to reduce corruption. I have used a lot of conditional methods in your verbs over the last few minutes because this proposal does not actually serve that purpose. It is so not for this purpose that it can be said in many minor details of the profession that the intention to provide a viable and, let's say, effective procedure in the fight against corruption cannot unfold. I'll give you some examples of why I think that. As I understand it, the rule will be that the time limit for dealing with such complaints will be six months. I consider this an unmercilessly long time. I wouldn't think it would take six months for any complaints to be examined in substance and answered by the authorities. The whole package of proposals leaves intact all kinds of corruption-related institutional systems, processes, procedures, from how and how a corruption-suspecting case, let's say, to the authorities, to what kind of sanctioning comes from it. Obviously, as Mr. State Secretary's author, you will say that, of course, because they are in other laws, and they will be used when a case of corruption arises; but it is only here that this complaint reporting system would be capable of clearing public life so that the conditions that are currently determining the corruption cases that we all know about and that 10 million citizens in this country could provide information. The protection of whistleblowers is very weak, in my opinion. Although the Secretary of State mentioned that there is and is indeed a part of the proposal, this is far from so attractive as to say that it is far from protecting the notifiers at a level where a notifier actually makes that notification. I'll give you specifics. It is not clear in detail how the applicant is protected, by the way, by which agency or authority in any process. So, if I announce, or a citizen announces any case, event on these channels, then who will protect me, you rightly ask the question of the whistleblower. You cannot obtain a reassuring answer from this proposal. If we understand it correctly, it is not excluded in this proposal that if any confidential information, business secrets, or possibly State secrets are submitted as information by the notifier, there will be no proceedings against it. I understand that the proposal says that the case is handled anonymously, so in Hungarian, in some ways the system protects the notifier in this way, but there will still be evidence of who, how and how the information was provided, especially that it is covered by Article XXI. All traceable, traceable, everything in the century, whether on paper or electronically, has been reported, but there is no guarantee that if he provides information he knows, but at the same time offends any business or other interests, such proceedings will not be brought against him. The protection given to the notifier is related to certain types of material or financial support, so that the protection may actually be part of some kind of financial support for the notifier, but this is very rough, there is no concrete in it. Let's just say it's not minimized how much is at least spent on this. Then I'm going from professional to really important political criticism. These include, if I understand correctly, installing the proposal to the Ombudsman to investigate cases where the competent authority does not or does not adequately manage the information and cases received. I dare say that this will mean that these cases will die in the ombudsman's office. In particular, the ombudsman's operation in recent years and this has been discussed several times in relation to the annual accounts, and I have also explained at Commission level that today the ombudsman's office is not working well, it does not deal with civil complaints as it should, in Hungarian: it is not for citizens. [[17 .30]] In fact, the Ombudsman has now become a minister of Fidesz machinery. This is shown by the fact that since the grinding of the Equal Treatment Authority and the incorporation of the Ombudsman in cases of this type, i.e. in infringement cases, only files have been pushed by the Office and does not provide any meaningful information to citizens. There is no more proof than the need to create a website to go up, my fellow Members, and there you will see that dozens of cases are waiting for you, citizens' affairs are waiting for you to receive any reply from the Ombudsman's office at all. It will be installed at the ombudsman's office to deal with complaints of this type when no other competent authorities act. It's a wooden iron ring, obviously it's not gonna work. But the real, even bigger, political problem is not this, but in the otherwise thick bill, I'm about five centimeters of a text called the III. Chapter 1. Because what you have done and we are now openly saying is that, in fact, on the basis of the transposition of an EU directive, we have had a proposal here for the raw political interests of Fidesz, because there have been other cases where, in a manner of speaking, announcements can be made and named. This is the protection of fundamental values and rights enshrined in the Fundamental Law, and so to say, the chapter on the announcements to protect the Hungarian way of life is perhaps the III. If I remember correctly, which has nothing to do with the EU Directive, this was not the case in the EU Directive. You put this in there yourself, my honourable fellow Member, and I say to the representative of the government, so that is a simple fidesz misdemeanor of what you are doing here. All you have to do is give him another shot at the mood you've been doing in this area for years. What are these four points that were added in addition to adding to the list of cases to be reported? Three which are otherwise regulated and even punished by other legislation; the items included in Btk. have now been put into this. Such is the fact that nationalities are part of our political community, such as the fact that the crimes of repressive regimes may be denied or such as how and how we protect our national symbols. In each of these three cases, these issues are resolved by separate legislative bodies, resolved with satisfaction, and, moreover, punished very seriously if they are violated. There was absolutely no need for this to be included, there was neither an EU directive nor any other domestic legislative reason. It was only because there was a way to put a fourth point after that, and that is to say that matters in which the role of marriage and family in the Fundamental Law is called into question, and to give way to complaints about it. This shows that this clause, in itself, is a line and a half in the thick proposal of a finger, shows that this is the real reason that this proposal is here before us. It is not that three years ago, or more than three years ago, an EU directive, the transposition of which is mandatory in domestic law, is merely a despicable political move, based on your intention, put in this proposal by Fidesz. All in all, a political element has been included in this proposal, which, for the benefit of citizens and for the good of them, has also been included. What you've done over the years, let me tell you, by the way, is outrageous. This is part of the same process that was started in 2020 with the introduction into the Fundamental Law of the mother woman, the father's male and famous sentence, the same one year later the lives of thousands of transgenders, known as Article 33. No one's life has gotten better with that amendment, but thousands of people have gotten worse just because of you. There was also a bill against pedophiles, which you call a family protection bill, but in fact, you put it here, on the House's table, because of the mood against gender and the LGBTQ community, and you accepted it. Then, last year, on the day of the parliamentary elections, the referendum that you called for and issued, and as much as you sought it, and as much as we heard the representative of the government refer to it on another matter yesterday, they managed to bring together an invalid referendum on this issue; over the decades, the first invalid referendum is linked to your name. This is the current proposal, this is the condition that such a political blow has been added to this EU directive on complaints, which is part of the same mood. I must reject this in the strongest possible way on the part of DK. This is part of the political game that Fidesz has been playing for years, that it has been targeting this community for years, and that it is trying to make hundreds of thousands of people's lives impossible, to make them feel at ease, simply because that is what their political intentions are, simply because it fits into their political strategy. This proposal is for the same purpose, the government is moving in the same direction that it has put itself in over the past few years. In the name of DK, we are most strongly opposed to this, we think it is the lowest political trick, and therefore we will not support this proposal in any way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-03-07-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-145	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/3089. The main objective of the bill is to ensure harmonisation of EU law, as the proposal is adopted on 23 October 2019 on the protection of whistleblowers of EU law, 2019/1937. to comply with the provisions of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. I do not wish to repeat what the Secretary of State Répássy Róbert has already said in his expozee and what was said in the main speech of my fellow Member, Mr Demeter Zoltán Fidesz, but I think it is important to stress that Chapter I of the bill rearranges the rules for submitting complaints and announcements of public interest on the basis of the existing complaint law, i.e. the re-codification of the 2013 Act. The bill is set out in Annex II. Chapter III of the Directive provides for compliance with the provisions of the Directive. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The bill is set out in Annex III. In order to recognise the higher level of protection of fundamental values and rights enshrined in the Fundamental Law, and in view of the public interest in defending the Hungarian lifestyle, the scope of notifications can be re-established by which anyone can make a statement against the fact that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and state-creating factors, against those who deny the crimes of the Nazis or communists, against those who hinder the respect and use of national symbols, and against those who question the constitutionally recognised role of marriage and family, or the protection necessary for the proper physical, mental and moral development of children, or the right to identity corresponding to the sex of birth. The bill is set out in Annex IV. In addition to the necessary technical regulatory elements, Chapter V of the Directive contains provisions on the protection of whistleblowers. The proposal would enter into force on the 60th day following its publication. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[17.40]]
u2023-03-07-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Dudás, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, According to the preamble to this Act, Hungary's international commitments to combat corruption and the recommendations made by international organisations were taken into account. Allow me to return to the pro-government contributions and speeches made in the debate ten years ago, only for a few sentences. As I followed up with my colleague Imre Vejkey in the debate, let me begin by saying that he is convinced that the bill before us is timely, necessary and well founded in the fight against corruption. One of the novels of the bill is that it supports anti-corruption measures in the private sector as well as the public sector. In the opinion of János Horváth, society, entrepreneurs, foreign investors feel that the well-being of the Hungarian society is better than before, as a result of less corruption, or a consciousness of society, the nation, to act against corruption or disorder. Bence Rétvári said that I think this will be an important step forward, it was an important commitment from Hungary. From 1 January, these announcements can start, they can do so with a public figure, with the Ombudsman, cases will turn up, police and prosecutorial investigations will take place, judicial proceedings will start, and corruption crimes will be revealed in this bill. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, By the way, Jobbik's then faction voted in favour of this bill, but at the same time we have to say, ten years from now, that much has not been achieved in connection with the persecution of corruption. Let's not go too far. If we bring here the Völner-Schadl pier, mentioned by others, we see that there are few countries in the world where a Deputy Minister of the Ministry, accused of accepting 83 million forints of bribes, is still the smallest in this case, defending himself on parole more than a year after the case exploded. György Schadl, who, by the way, is the Executive Chamber [[Sic!]] [[Sic!]] President, he's been under arrest for over a year, and he's still the Executive Chamber (sic!) President. I don't know where it could be from Central Africa or South America. to set such an example, but I suspect nothing where this might happen, where it would be allowed. My fellow Members, the fight against corruption is extremely important, but it is not possible to fight it with appearances. But let us get to the proposal in particular. This is to lay down Hungarian laws in accordance with the provisions of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons declaring an infringement of Union law. Chapter I of the proposal codifies the existing complaint law. I think it's okay to change and clarify legislation in the light of practical experience. Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data Chapter III of the Directive provides for That's okay, too. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. Chapter 1 regulates notifications which may be submitted in order to achieve a higher level of protection of fundamental values and rights contained in the Fundamental Law and in view of the public interest in the protection of Hungarian lifestyle. Maybe that's the phrase the press picked up best. That's what we've read most about in the last few days. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the Hungarian way of life is. We can agree that Hungarian society is a diverse, thank-you-god, blessed with many talents and qualities, but I do not think that the lifestyle of my fellow countrymen, blessed with a very different life situation, should be brought to the same level with everyone's situation. I think you're going to try again to create a separation, a incitement, a hatred and an exclusion, a basis for that. I fear that, in practice, the Hungarian way of life will mean not reality, but the will of Fidesz, and we have seen so many times that it can force this on Hungarian society, on Hungarian people in all circumstances. According to the proposal, it is possible to announce in the internal abuse reporting system and in the separate abuse notification system if it doubts that the nationalities living with us are also part of the Hungarian political community, denies the crimes of national socialist and communist dictatorships, hinders the respect and use of national symbols. I absolutely do not doubt the importance and validity of these, but there is currently legal protection for these three categories. We have laws on the rights of nationalities, and the Criminal Code punishes violence against members of the community, public denial of the crimes of national socialist or communist regimes and violations of the national symbol. I think these facts are heavily protected by the Btk. I am also aware of the fact that the proposal includes the obligation to transmit to the responsible body. Only then do I not understand parallel regulation. By the way, in most procedures, the referral is still working. Point 4 [[Sic!]] [[Sic!]] I do not feel that you are sufficiently precise or that you are not making other decisions than those set out in point 4 (sic!) It's all right. According to this, a complaint can be made against a person who doubts the constitutionally recognised role of marriage and the family or the right to protection and care necessary for the proper physical, mental and moral development of children, as well as to identity appropriate to the sex of birth. This is all good, good and supportive, but I find it quite hypocritical when Fidesz endangers the proper physical, mental and moral development of children when he treats teachers as enemies when he does not provide adequate resources for education when teachers are not valued by the government either financially or morally. You threaten the proper physical, mental and moral development of children even when doctors and healthcare workers, the Hungarian Medical Chamber, are presented as a source of all problems in the health care sector, when they can only levitate the debt settlement of hospitals when they are redesigning the on-call system with unthinkable reforms. The truth is, fellow pro-government Members, that your government, your politicians, regularly pick a layer, beat, cut, hurt, create an enemy image, constantly looking for an enemy image and demonizing. I do not know where this path leads, but I am afraid that it is not in the right direction, and because of the adverse effects on the whole Hungarian society, it is a catastrophic direction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-03-07-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group.
u2023-03-07-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At first and second reading, this proposal seems a little confusing. I might be able to compare it to a misguided projectile, or fake action, in addition to creating parallelity and multi-layered regulation in the legal system. My first question would be because my administrative experience between 2003 and 2010 is raised, that you will now have to produce new regulations, either in the private sector or in the public sector, for jobs where these measures are to be implemented. Then there are also a little foreign terms from the Hungarian legal language, such as the employer's abuse reporting system, whistleblower's lawyer, the legal institution of the legal institution, the new papering and the papering of the legal institution. I'm afraid that it's going to be prescribed, of course, by some so-called experts and lawyers, that it's going to be very good for them, that different regulations have to be prepared, and then the vast majority of these policies end up in the same place, in one of the desk drawers or on one of the cabinet shelves, and the flea dog in the shooting range won't be interested in what's in these regulations, and they're never going to apply it in the stinking life, just because one of the smart guys here in Pest has prescribed it. [[17.50]] 'Cause now, let's be honest, that's what the story is all about. It is extremely generous that at least ten thousand municipalities and businesses with fewer than 50 employees will be exempted from this regulation, but I note that businesses with a workforce of between 50 and 249 employees or more than 249 employees will not be pleased when the thousandth administrative burden is imposed on them by the state. We are talking about the fact that, in many cases, the operation of an undertaking or the operation of an administrative body, such as a municipality, a mayor's office, should also be simplified in settlements with a population of more than 10 thousand people. In the last 30 years, there have been a lot of legitimate complaints from the public administration, especially the lower-level public authorities, especially smaller mayor offices, that Parliament should be kind enough to establish simpler procedures, because the tension between citizens and the administrative decision-maker is on the ground; it is right to say that they can only apply the rules that the Parliament is creating, or a ministry is creating, they cannot deviate from it, and they cannot, by municipal decree, simplify it or override it, because, in fact, lower-level legislation cannot be contrary to higher-level legislation. Now, compared to that, n+1. or x+1. They're getting regulation around their necks. There is no doubt that the proposal identifies important protected subjects, all of them are very, very important, but there are also much stronger and more effective means to better protect these legal subjects or these subjects. There's criminal law right now. In general, in the case of these acts, the denial or relativisation of the crimes of the great public, such as the crimes of national socialist or communist dictatorships, is typically subject to large public acts. I wonder what kind of sanctions might be imposed here in the case of a large non-public offence. The regulations are produced by employers in the private sector and in the public sector, and what are the legal consequences? Well, it looks like they started a sentence, they didn't finish it. They started a regulatory round, or they started a procedure, a procedure, and they didn't finish it, because you have no idea what the proper conclusion of the idea would be, what legal consequences could be attached to it. I am sure that some of the lawyers will be very pleased that, as a whistle-blower, they can carry out such activities either for a fixed monthly commission fee or for a case-by-case commission fee, and that the undertakings in question will be faced with a new, quasi-public burden of payment of these costs. Sooner or later, there will be experts on the basis of separate lists who will have the exclusive right to draw up these meaningless policies or almost nothing regulations. Instead of being engaged in making decisions within the shortest possible, simple procedures, instead of producing, producing, providing services, trading or performing tasks appropriate to its scope of activity, the public administration will once again be engaged in producing the twenty-five thousand regulations. Well, quite frankly, Mr. Secretary of State, are you sure that what we see here is among the first five hundred most important problems in Hungary, that this is the biggest problem in the middle of an unprecedented world-historic situation in the middle of an economic crisis? Because the institution of marriage and family must be protected, this is not a question, and all the subjects that are here must be protected, but on the one hand, their protection has already been achieved and, on the other hand, should not be further enhanced in a bill on complaints and announcements of public interest. Have you ever thought about, say, increasing internal tensions in the workplace? Because, let's face it, unfortunately, there are traditions in some places of vampering and snitching, where appropriate, of making false announcements. If something illegal happens, isn't it easier to go to the police, go to the D.A.'s office, do you have to add that, introduce another parallel? But I felt from your expo that you felt a little vague about this whole story, and maybe if you put your hand on your heart, or if you had decided to do so, you wouldn't be sure that this proposal would come before the National Assembly. So I would like answers to the questions about the legal consequences of those against whom there is evidence that they are complaining in a well-founded manner. How does this relate, for example, to the subject of labour law? 'Cause let's not just talk about criminal law. What kind of labour law sanctions can be attached to this? How do you defend yourself against that? Because let us also give the chance to say that, in the case of a complaint, it will be just, say, a means of working and competing, which, in the form of a legal sharp knife in the figurative sense of the word, is being handed over to some people, who, let's say, do not want to act legally or do not want to use this tool legally. Are people being harassed just to prevent their career in the workplace when there is a lot of intrigue in certain jobs, whether in the public sector or in the private sector, when it comes to progress, especially now when unemployment is unfortunately going to rise? So, it's a little surprising to me that you guys at the Department of Justice have time to deal with regulations or regulations like that. That's gonna make us have a thousand times bigger problems. Or perhaps it should be clarified how high the threads of the Völner-Schadl case that has already been mentioned are, because, let's say, there should be a little stronger regulations. Or will such dewy tools be sufficient to eliminate corruption compared to the efficiency needed to detect corruption? Well, Pál Völner and György Schadl wouldn't have been caught in life, they'd still be happy to live their world, it's possible that Pál Völner would be sitting here in the chair or chair in which you're sitting now, Mr. Secretary, if one of their idiotic associates, who's already been worked on by the National Defence Service, doesn't logically start chatting, doesn't start a chatter that ends up with the NTSZ's eyes, and they've found György Schadl's trail, and we already know the rest from the press. Well, that didn't start with a work complaint, either, using the sections of the law on complaints and announcements of public interest. And then, by the way, there were secret service tools that helped me uncover the series of acts of corruption on which I also firmly believe that the HUF 83 million of Pál Völner and the HUF 1 billion connected with György Schadl are just the tip of the iceberg. Because for the time being, there have been such high-level political-protected predators who, for the time being, seem to enjoy the highest level of protection, of whom it is well known that say, 83 million forints may be regarded as modest coffee money, and they would take it as a direct insult that they would only be bribed by 83 million. Well, that will not be the proposal on complaints and announcements of public interest, or it will discourage the perpetrators from committing such acts in the future. So I consider this to be such a diversion or a pretend act, along with saying again that these protected legal objects are important, only to protect them, I believe, at the moment. But if it is really important to preserve or increase the quality of life of the Hungarian people, then I could give you some tips on how, let's say, to significantly increase the quality of education and health. Let us say that the Hungarian way of life is violated by what Dóra Dúró said here in his speech before the agenda, and to which a rather cynical response was received from the government, on behalf of one of the State Secretarys. Say that reducing school violence would greatly improve the Hungarian way of life. Normal quality education could protect Hungarian interests, high-quality health care could serve the lives of Hungarian people, who paid their pants in the form of taxes and various public burdens for the rest of their lives, and those Hungarian men, a significant part of whom are not worth the retirement age and die before the state pays them a single forint pension. Or if the now deteriorating public security and the disintegrating police could fulfil their obligation under the Fundamental Law and, by the way, the relevant sectoral laws, it would improve the Hungarian way of life, it would improve the Hungarian quality of life. It would indeed be a profound change if these regulations were to be applied, if they were to carry out substantial wage increases, wage developments, and other measures were to be taken in the fields of education, health, law enforcement, and not to write rules, write regulations, either by the public administration or by employers, or by ordering the narrow circle of beneficiaries that has been filled with taxpayers' forints or other options over the past 13 years. So I would like these questions and suggestions to be answered precisely by the Secretary of State, free from misconceptions. Thank you. [[18.00]]
u2023-03-07-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Antal Paulik, a Slovak ethnic advocate, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-151	[[???Ďakujem za slovo pán predseda! Köszönöm a szót, elnök úr. Vážený pán predseda! Vážené panie poslankyne a páni poslanci! Vážený pán štátny tajomník! Vo svojom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností v Maďarsku k návrhu zákona číslo T/3089 o pravidlách, súvisiacich s oznamovaním sťažností, oznámení vo verejnom záujme a nahlásením zneužívania právomoci. Výbor predložený návrh prerokoval na svojom včerajšom zasadnutí.???]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, In my speech, I present to you the opinion of the Committee on Nationalities of Hungary on complaints, announcements of general interest and rules on whistleblowers T/3089. About bill No. 1. The bill was discussed at our committee's meeting yesterday. As can be seen in the introduction to the reasoning of the bill, this draft legislation, which is now before us, has a long history and a number of texts summarised in previous laws. In addition to extensive legislation, it is not of any interest to the nationalities living in Hungary if the title of some of the laws that, after the change of regime, provided the rights of minority ethnic communities living in Hungary and the guarantees of their existence are also mentioned in today's debate. First of all, I think it is important to mention the 1993 LXXVII on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. law, which was the first law on the protection of minorities in modern Hungarian legislation. This legislation already contained the provision that the institution established under a separate law, the Parliamentary Commissioner for Civil Rights and his office monitor the rights of national and ethnic minorities living in our country. The 1993 LIX. The Parliamentary Commissioner for the Rights of National and Ethnic Minorities worked in an independent organisation within the office established by law, acting on its authority, following requests, in response to complaints about violations of national or ethnic rights. The Fundamental Law adopted in 2011 followed by its provisions, the 2011 CXL on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Act and Act CLXXIX of 2011 on the Rights of Nationalities. Law 1 redefines the conditions for institutional control to monitor the framework for the rights of nationalities and their effectiveness. It is important to note that, following these changes, the office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights retains the autonomy of the Deputy Commissioner for National Rights. I thought it was important to present this review in order to indicate that, in addition to a number of other social policy foundations set out in the Fundamental Law, the draft legislation that has just been tabled pays attention to the examination of complaints and announcements of nationality rights in the public interest. However, as I have already mentioned, a regulatory framework for the enforcement of national rights, the provision of them by offices and the control of their implementation has already existed. Both the Ombudsman's deputy to monitor the enforcement of nationality rights, the former Equal Treatment Authority and its successor, have continuously provided the data subjects with the possibility to lodge complaints and then access to the results of the follow-up investigations. Not least, the annual ombudsman's reports discuss in detail the number of inquiries carried out in this area, their subject matter, their outcome and the subjects and subject matter of any follow-up initiatives following the conclusion of investigations. Dear House, The primary reason for the regulation that has now been tabled, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, is that the bodies of the European Union have, in recent years, identified as an important, more pronounced objective for the Member States to identify and take action in relation to infringements of EU law. Therefore, the aim of the bill is to establish new Hungarian laws in line with EU expectations, taking into account the existing regulations in Hungary. The starting point of the regulatory concept was that Hungary should ensure consistency with the relevant directive of the European Union by maintaining the legal institutions of the existing legislation, so as to create a new legal institution only in the most necessary cases. The regulation of 2013 mentioned earlier, the new legal institutions introduced by the Law on Complaints and Public Interest Notifications, of which the establishment of an electronic protected notification system operated by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the regulatory framework for the employer's abuse reporting system, and the existence of provisions on whistleblower protection lawyers in accordance with the latter legislation, ensure the smooth entry into force of the current law. Measures to protect complainants and notifiers from personal data and against adverse measures against them represent important guarantees for the future functioning of the system as a whole. In view of the specific nature of its area of competence, our Commission has, of course, examined the content of the draft legislation in order to ensure that national rights are enforced. At yesterday's committee meeting, we examined less the provisions of the draft aimed at preventing corruption. This part of the regulation affects members of ethnic communities, like all Hungarian citizens. I would like to mention so much that we welcome, on our part, the legal guarantees regarding complaints in the economic and public sector, as well as announcements of public interest, and we trust that they will ensure, in practice, the protection of the personal data of complainants and notifiers, and that, following the complaint, they will not be harmed. As can be seen from the text of the draft law and from what has been said here in the debate, the bill is set out in Annex III. Chapter 50, Art. Other values included in the Fundamental Law, including fundamentals, deal with nationalities native to Hungary, and with the fact that the nationalities living in our country are part of the Hungarian political community and are state-creating factors. As a result, both the Fundamental Law and the legislation mentioned in the first part of my speech will protect the members of our communities. We have always been confident and confident that, in the context of this protection and the protection of guaranteed nationality rights, there should be no infringement of nationalities, an infringement of their equality. Yet, and this is confirmed by my fellow advocates, as well as the organisations that have already mentioned, monitoring violations of national minority rights, we know of a number of sad cases. In many cases, we had to appeal to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights or the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary in cases of infringement of nationalities, as did the former Equal Treatment Authority, in order to investigate and assist in the detection of violations of rights at the expense of individuals belonging to a nationality, or even of whole nationalities, and to take action against the perpetrators. There are more serious cases where the whole of a nationality is hurt by either employers or even more serious by a local government or by a media service provider. The latter can also occur more often and more often in discussions in virtual space today, and in my experience it is becoming more and more common. Another issue is that among the members and institutions of these named ethnic communities there is a private individual or community who, following an Internet comment or a programme published there, accepts the complaint. I hope that this bill will also act as a deterrent in many cases, and that the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, Vice-President and colleagues can address other issues that are important to us in the future. It is proposed that a new internal abuse reporting system should be established for companies over 50 and local authorities in municipalities over 10 000, which will also help address cases of possible hate speech. I feel that this will not necessarily be a solution to, for example, the unsuitable attacks against nationalities that are often seen in online media. However, over a longer period of time, its functioning and the real handling of complaints received, and the dissemination of relevant information, can bring about a change in society as a whole in this area as well. [[18.10]] The practical implementation of the bill presented to the plenary will, in my view, bring to light many conflicts with seemingly ethnic communities which, in their examination, may ultimately prove to be the result of individual differences and tensions between specific individuals and not ethnic ones. Thus, their disclosure can help to strengthen the political public climate of Hungary, which has been characteristic of nationalities in recent decades. Dear House, The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities reviewed the bill on complaints, announcements of public interest and rules on whistleblowers, and discussed in detail its elements related to nationality. As a result of this debate, our committee supports the adoption of the draft legislation. .akujem Vám za posornosť. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-07-152	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It would now be possible to make two-minute speeches. As no one has made themselves known, further speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-07-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Let us be very clear: this whistleblower protection law can now be before the Hungarian Parliament because, as a dialogueary MEP, Jávor Benedek has drawn up a draft directive for which the Fidesz government is now attempting to transpose. As a member of the European Parliament's green fraction, Benedek Jávor started working on a comprehensive European-level reporting protection regulation as early as 2014, because we believe in transparency, integrity and want to create institutional conditions for this. As a result of work with civilians and experts and the green fraction, a draft directive was drawn up on the basis of which the European Commission drew up its own draft Directive on the protection of whistleblowers in 2018, which was adopted by the European Parliament in 2019, which then entered into force in the autumn of the year. By December 2021, the Hungarian Government would have had an obligation to transpose these directives into the Hungarian legal order. They didn't do their job. Not only are they late for the first time, but it is not only the inability to govern, but also the lack of intention that is very clear here. The Fidesz Government has the least interest in protecting public-interest announcements, in fact investigating complaints of public interest concerning, for example, theft of public funds. However, they were not too enthusiastic when we presented draft laws in the Hungarian Parliament on the basis of the EU directive, on the one hand, on an anti-corruption prosecutor's office and on the other hand, on the part of the Dialogue faction, containing the integrated reporting protection regulations. We've done this several times. If there really were transparency, any commitment to combating corruption, then the pro-government representatives would not have voted off these dialogue proposals every time at the Commission stage. Even now, what has been submitted addresses very few problems and raises very serious and many new problems. The biggest problem that has been left out of the bill, and what exposes the government's real intentions, including the regulation on anonymous announcements, is simply refusing to examine them, while we know exactly what the risk in Hungary is to take a name for the announcement of corruption near the government. After all, if you really wanted to fight this, at least maintain the EU's appearance of actually dealing with complaints and announcements of public interest, you would obviously not have left out the relevant parts of the bill. But perhaps it is not the biggest problem that has been left out, but the biggest problem that has been written in it, and that is, at the very least, not following the logic of the EU directive drawn up by the Jávor Benedicteks. This is a completely personal development, a fidesz patent, if you will, this is the III. Chapter I, which, if they were a little less honest, would say which social groups were instigated. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: For example?]] For example, if the Secretary of State so asked, for example, it is used primarily and above all to attack LGBTQ people. It's part of your pathetic, bigoted, homophobic propaganda. And they know precisely that this not only blows out the fuse with the good Hungarian people, but also knocks out the guarantee in the Union, which will attack this freedom of opinion, freedom of speech, and the Hungarian regulation that clearly crosses the freedom of conscience, and then you can play this freedom fight with the usual little peacock dance against the interests of the Hungarian people. So while you are speaking in an infinitely hypocritical, hypocritical way about Christian, conservative values, we know precisely that you are stealing public money, using drugs, having sex with prostitutes, or humiliating yourself from 25-person drug orgies during quarantine periods on gutters. This is your reality... [[Dr. Robert Répássy: That was the British Prime Minister!]] [[Dr. Robert Répássy: That was the British Prime Minister!]] What? (Dr. Robert Répássy: That was the British Prime Minister!) No, unfortunately, we're talking about a Fidesz MEP. Everyone knows, so it's one of the biggest stories in the world. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: The British Prime Minister fell for it.]] So, Mr. Secretary, don't try to pretend that this is some new story in our little life. In Brussels, there is already a memorial place where the Fidesz MEP, who drafted your bigoted homophobic Fundamental Law, tried to escape from a multiple-violent orgy. So I would ask you, very nicely, to stop all these hypocritical speeches, or even the submission of such billings, because we know exactly what the game is about, and everyone who has an eye for this is completely discredited in this case. Their only goal is to create hatred again, to distract attention from their own failing governance and the theft of public funds, and the demise of democracy. Instead, they are trying to follow the principle of sharing and conquer, and they are playing to the worst feelings and emotions of some Hungarians, and they are stimulating the hatred that should just be appeased and corrected. We see that this law is ultimately part of their post-Putin propaganda policy, and in the least not to clean up Hungarian public life from corruption, because, as we see in the Völner-Schadl-Rogan case, not only tens and hundreds of millions are being stolen, but tens and hundreds of billions are being covered up by a large artificial concern, only the related ministerial and even higher level of involvement. But let's hear you see the leaked recordings of your deputy minister and one of your stewards, President-in-Office of the Executive Faculty, talking about how to deal with the 35-year concession. Well, we see these 35-year concessions that Antal Rogán manages, and Lőrinc Mészáros is carrying out, and the hundreds of billions of dollars in profits attributed to Hungarian taxpayers are distributed among themselves. We see that they are not willing to change this practice at any cost. This law, of course, if it comes into force, will not remedy this problem, since it would affect the essence of your system, your spine, and it would crush it. So it would be very surprising if a genuine, substantive anti-corruption and whistleblower protection regulation were passed through the Hungarian National Assembly, one that was developed by the dialogueist Benedek Jávor and submitted on several occasions. We have no illusions, we know that you will not give up the principle of theft, and you would rather start such a bigoted, ideological, homophobic war against a significant proportion of Hungarian society than do a meaningful legislative work. This is infinitely regrettable, perfectly shameful, and, of course, from the Dialogue side, we will not assist in any way. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-03-07-154	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-155	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Mr Lords and Secretary of State, I'm trying to stay objective, unlike a few speakers. At the beginning of the expo, I said that this is an EU directive that needs to be transposed. Now we have learned from Bence of Turdai that we owe this directive to Benedek Jávor. In addition, Bence Tordai pointed out that we should have transposed this directive into Hungarian law a long time ago. [[18.20]] So Bence Tordai, although I'm sure he didn't want to, but he answered some criticisms instead of me, so everything that is wrong in this directive is thanks to Bened Jávor. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]] And why we have to deal with this while we are at war with our neighbours, we have to deal with this because the Union is punishing us if we do not transpose this directive. So I should like to thank Bence of Turdai very much for pointing out these essential facts. Anyone who has had the opportunity or the administrative burden of this new rule has also learned that if Bence Tordai could have written this law, we would have to protect anonymous whistleblowers and even take anonymous announcements seriously, and then we would really feel like A Witness, where anonymous whistleblowers were protected by firefighters. You may remember this case. Well, this House, back to the bill, almost exclusively implements the directive, transposes the directive, and, as I said, where possible, where the interests of common sense and the Hungarian economy dictated that the government take the opportunity to take advantage of the derogation option in the directive, where this bill took advantage of unnecessary administration, does not impose unnecessary burdens on organisations who will have to implement this law. As to the fact that this law would double the regulation by providing secondary regulation or secondary standards, I drew attention to the fact that, of course, those partly criminal acts which form the basis for the announcements are not regulated here, but are regulated in the Criminal Code or Code of Violation. The law on the protection of whistleblowers is not a substantive right, so to speak, it is not about what should be punished. Therefore, the criticisms that already criticise the potential announcements of the notifiers, I believe that they lead nowhere because they are indeed required by other laws. So corruption is also punishable, and bribery is also a criminal act. So anyone who asks why the announcement of such a doubling, such as cases of violence against the community or incitement to the community, should be included in this rule, should be made because these rules are now part of the criminal code. So there's nothing new about it, so to say, it might shock someone, for example, if they write down what's coming from the Fundamental Law, or what's in the Fundamental Law, there must be people that it shocks, but I think they don't know the Fundamental Law, or they can't identify with it. What I can understand is that they can't identify with him, I can understand that they can't identify with the Basic Law. The bill doesn't have any homophobic edge or racist edge or anything like what they're talking about. It is precisely the national minority advocate who pointed out best that what the bill is about, obviously all comments can be made on this, but I think that for those who will be better protected in favour of whistleblower protection or after the entry into force of whistleblower protection, this legislation will be useful. Those who will be forced to suffer unnecessarily, to make some kind of announcement against them, frankly, they have been forced to suffer from unfounded announcements, call it a complaint or any other form. So this does not solve the problem of continuing to have unfounded announcements that, after the investigation, it turns out that there was no basis. In fact, I was specifically struck by the fact that the directive required the applicant to be irresponsible. Therefore, in practice, the notifier is not responsible for the reality of the facts which it has notified. [[Dr. István Apáti: You can talk about anything. Bence Tordai: Should the investigator do the investigation work?]] This, too, is obviously thanks to Benedek Jávor for making such an excellent rule for the European Parliament or for the European Union. I think that we need to deal with this legislation in its place, and, of course, we need to transpose this directive. I believe that this transposed legislation will not harm you. The fact that one will use it or not will only be decided by posterity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-07-156	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Czechoslovakia, signed in Budapest on 24 November 1986, on the termination of the Convention on the regulation of railway traffic in the Hungarian-Czechoslovak Republic until its closure. The government referral is T/3087. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ágh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Construction and Investment, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2023-03-07-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to abolish by common accord the Convention on the regulation of Hungarian-Czechoslovak rail traffic, concluded by the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Czechoslovakia on 24 November 1986. The agreement concluded in 1986 regulates the rail border traffic between Hungary and the successor Slovakia. The Convention is now outdated and is not suitable for dealing with relations between the two EU Member States, and a new, modern convention has been developed instead, on which bilateral negotiations have been conducted for a longer time. In the meantime, the European Commission, in its notification of the draft of the Hungarian-Croatian rail border convention, made comments suggesting that it would be more appropriate to repeal old bilateral rail border agreements between individual EU Member States, without concluding a new agreement, rather than to revise, amend or supplement them, as it considers that EU law settles the issues covered by the rail border agreements. Moreover, Article 14 of Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway area provides that the border traffic conventions of the Member States should not contain discrimination between railway undertakings or restrict the freedom of railway undertakings to provide cross-border services. In August 2022, the Slovak party indicated its support for the repeal of the Convention without the conclusion of a new agreement. The issue has been given a special topicality by the joint initiative of the cities Losonc and Balassagyarmat to restart the international passenger traffic of the Ipolytarnóc railway. However, since Ipolytarnóc is not among the border points authorised by the Convention, this is an international legal obstacle to the start-up of traffic. Without the international contract on railway border traffic, infrastructure managers from neighbouring States as well as railway companies can agree more freely and flexibly on the conditions for cross-border transport. In view of the fact that the Convention in question constitutes an international treaty, it is subject to the provisions of the Law on the Procedure of International Contracts. In addition, since the Convention also contains provisions on the crossing of the state border, which is regulated by the Law on State Borders, it is therefore necessary to abolish the Convention by law. Following the publication of the Act declaring the termination of the Convention in the Hungarian Gazette, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will send a list of terminations to the Slovak party. The Slovak party indicated in January 2023 that the internal legal processes of Slovakia in the context of the termination had taken place, so there was no obstacle to the planned termination by mutual agreement on 1 April 2023. Finally, I would like to say that the repeal of the Convention does not affect the provisions of the Convention between the Republic of Hungary and the Slovak Republic on the control of road, rail and water traffic in Bratislava on 9 October 2003. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-07-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be a speech by the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[18.30]]
u2023-03-07-159	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be extremely brief. The aim of the bill is to abolish the agreement between Hungary and Czechoslovakia on the regulation of rail traffic concluded in 1986 by common accord, because the convention has already completely outdated the rail border traffic between Hungary and the successor Slovakia. There is no need for a new convention because EU law clearly resolves the issues covered by rail border agreements. On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the abolition of the Convention on the regulation of rail traffic in Hungary-Czechoslovak by common accord. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-03-07-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker's speech. Now, I'm gonna ask you if anyone else would like to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to respond to the speaker's speech. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-03-07-161	Mr President, As has just been said, the bill is intended to bring an end to a convention that is now outdated, and it is a measure that will be taken by absolute agreement with Slovakia, of course, after the honourable Parliament accepts it. When the proposal is adopted, rail border traffic between two countries, Hungary and Slovakia, will continue to flow more smoothly in line with the European Union's directives. It is therefore a law that is necessary and desirable to make, and which is fully compatible with Hungarian interests. I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the bill regardless of party political affiliation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2023-03-07-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, from the Jobbik Group: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-07-163	Mr President, Dear House, It is very difficult for me to hold a post agenda on the VAT content of child-rearing articles and the support of families so that I can only honor Mr President of the Chamber in respect of pro-government representatives and, in the spirit of fairness, note that he is here, and I am very pleased to do so, but I do not see the Secretary of State who can respond in opposite benches, even though I would like to talk about today's event and the consequences of those which are, without exaggerating, national strategy. In changing the budget, our political community, the Jobbik-Conservatives, drew attention to a very, very important problem in the spirit of an attitude that respects tradition and supports families, as regards the demographic turnaround in this House we have talked a lot about, but the tax content of child raising articles is the highest in all Europe. The 27 percent VAT on a stroller, child-rearing articles, or even on a diaper may also be a global record. But what we see is that, while the elements of the family support system are constantly inflagging, unfortunately, inflation is spinning faster than the amount of these could rise year after year, we see that families raising children in an extremely difficult situation are paying more and more into the state register year after year in the form of VAT in child rearing articles, and the support they can receive for raising children is getting less and less. To quantify this: although KSH sometimes measures very strange things, it has measured, for example, the price changes of the stereo tower for playing the CD and the fold-out car paper map for the previous year, it also measures items that belong to our subject area, and it is more instructive to examine price changes. For example, the relatively necessary price change of the stroller to raise children has been dramatic over the past two years. Now you can buy a stroller that may meet your average needs for about 108 thousand forints, your KSH data, obviously we could find more expensive and cheaper. But what we should consider is that this 108 thousand HUF could be 85 thousand if Hungary left the 27 percent VAT with the families. The fact is that this is a difference of tens of thousands of forints. It makes me wonder why the resulting 27 percent, obviously not so significant in the national economy, are still retained by the state. Even in the case of children's shoes, it may only look like a few thousand forints, but the 12 600 forints children's shoes would be at 9900 forints just if the state didn't take the record erasers, I'll say it again after children's education articles. Children also know that a baby's meal, especially if there are more than one child, runs out every day. Here, the Kecskemét brand is also available at a price above 600 HUF in certain shops. This would settle right around 500 HUF in terms of price if the VAT was released by Hungary. That is why we would like to capacitate the Government of Hungary to release VAT on all child rearing articles. Only on the basis of VAT revenue, the state collects about a thousand billion more than it did a year ago. Perhaps a tenth of this surplus of a thousand billion would only be needed if families raising children were to receive this discount and relief. On the other hand, when I presented the proposal for this in the course of the amending budget, it is surprising that it was not with a polite stay in the Committee on the Economy, but with a clear non-voting vote. I am very confident that this is not an eternal message from the government regarding the unacceptability of the burdens of families raising children. These burdens must be recognised, a family support system should be established for each of its components, but most importantly, Hungary should leave the tax amount for the families concerned in a crisis situation with regard to basic foods and even more child-rearing articles. You could do this with a variety of techniques, it's all about intent. We, as a right-wing opposition party, will, of course, always help to ease the burden on families, but we need the government to do this at last, because we cannot expect a demographic turn, we cannot visualise it if the burdens of families continue to rise, and even in such clear cases they do not ease the problems they face in their daily lives. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-03-07-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Dudás, Jobbik Group:. I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-03-07-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have talked on several occasions about the effects on mail and postal workers. I don't get much of a merit answer, and every single one of my speeches seems like I'm getting deaf ears, and they don't want to hear my cry for help, not necessarily my cry for help, but through me, the cry for help from postal workers. In view of today, it can actually be said that they will not hear my voice, I would like to speak again on a very important subject, and I promise that I will bring this subject to this House many more times, but there is not a single member of the government in this House. I do not want to repeat what has been said many times so far, and I do not want to repeat the proposals that could have been used to offer a solution to both the post office and the postal workers, and through them hundreds of thousands of Hungarians. In order to save the administration of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, these proposals were all rejected. Last Monday, I received the reply from Secretary of State János Fónagy to modernise the system. Well, please, it's not modernization or a very, very specific interpretation of modernization, it's a very, very bad step, and once again, it makes tens of thousands of workers impossible, and hundreds of thousands of people's administration impossible. But there are also many other aspects of this situation. One is so-called centralization, where they create so-called central base mails. [[18.40]] This means, and now allow me to draw from the rural situation, to talk about a small village area, when the post office itself does not cease on site, but the delivery is no longer managed from place, but base mails are created and appointed. This means that in the morning, the delivery guy will take a car, bus, anything to the neighboring settlement, and there he will have to carry out the task with which he will have to carry out an envelope, letter, money, package, whatever it is, and then he will receive a small electric moped to go back to his own settlement, carry out his task, go back in the evening, settle down, then drive home or drive home with which he arrived at the base post office in the morning. Whoever came up with this, I dare say he wasn't in his right mind to look at reality, especially rural reality. How can someone seriously think that, by the way, in 40, minus 20, in snow to the knees, between villages, in the dark, with tens of millions of forints, say, behind his back, a defenseless lady walks around with this moped, wandering the countryside? ! Have you thought about what kind of danger you're putting them in? However, many of these workers have thought about this, because I have received a number of requests and signals that they do not undertake this task; this, in turn, makes it difficult to fulfil the needs of the population. The other is the payroll. The average wage of postal workers is well below the average Hungarian wages, and they were promised 2 percent, plus generously 1 percent, according to a prior consultation, as promised. Well, there was a demonstration last Saturday by postal workers. In the spirit of my respect and solidarity with them, I did not participate in this demonstration, which is because they asked for a political demonstration. I fully respect this and try to help them achieve their objectives, so I have tabled two budget amendments. One was about the government securing from the central budget the HUF 20 billion that could be used to re-open more than 300 post offices that have now been closed, and the other was that the central budget would provide postal workers with an inflation-following wage increase. This was unanimously voted off at the Budget Committee meeting this morning. I ask you very much and I very much hope that you will agree that what the postal workers have asked the government to do in the petition, if my budget amendment has not been accepted, then their request, please accept, is to give them the appropriate wage increase, because their work creates the possibility of administration for hundreds of thousands of people or makes it impossible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-03-07-166	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
