u2023-06-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 24th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, I have a sad duty to fulfill by announcing that Gyula Tellér died in the 89th year of our former colleague's life. Gyula Tellér is a sociologist, who obtained his mandate from the national list of SZDSZ in the first free parliamentary elections after the change of regime, and he was the party's representative of Parliament for a period of time. Later, at the parliamentary elections in 2006, as a candidate for Fidesz, he became once again a member of the Parliament on the party's national list. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Economic Committee and the Committee on Culture and Press. In 1999, the European Economic and Social Committee set up the European Economic and Social Committee. He was appointed Head of Science of the Company Institute. During the first Orbán administration, he worked as Head of the Political Analysis Department of the Prime Minister's Office and, since 2010, as Advisor to the Prime Minister. He was awarded the Széchenyi Prize in 2015 in recognition of his sociological career. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people present salute the memory of the deceased with a moment's silence.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2023-06-12-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On Friday evening, a fire broke out in the Bátony tere in a battery recycling plant with a huge capacity. We are talking about the company or the plant in which the authorities have repeatedly established infringements and which has appeared to have been unsuccessfully tried or forced to comply with the law. We are talking about the site where, unfortunately, there was an explosion in the summer of last year, a so-called technological explosion, and we are also talking about the company whose other premises also had an accident with unfortunately tragic consequences this year. We must say, ladies and gentlemen, that people living near such plants, the protection of workers working in such companies, and the protection of the environment, and the protection of our natural resources, are in great danger in Hungary today. The fact that you fired the water leader who described the serious environmental risks of the gigantic Chinese battery factory planned for Debrecen, and the fact that the government side has repeatedly voted off the rules on strict environmental regulations and mandatory controls, again underline that there is a very serious problem. Ladies and gentlemen, It is time to talk clearly about what is happening in Hungary today around such plants, and what will happen if we do not take meaningful action. You have decided on a so-called industrial strategy, and you want to call into the country a huge amount of battery plants, or a related dangerous plant, to build up state aids, to reduce environmental protection, and often to exempt from the strictest environmental authorisation procedures, while one thing you have not done is not taken into account what the environmental impact of this industrial strategy will be in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, Women and Lords, You are always talking about compliance with strict environmental rules, while this claim may never have been as far away from reality as it is today. This is supported by the encryption, by the fact that in several cases civilians had to draw attention to pollution in Győrszentiván's area a week ago, and by the fact that you are often lenient with illegal companies. Ladies and gentlemen, if these companies can do everything they can, if they ignore Hungarian legislation, then I believe that this is what will be done by those companies, and this will also happen in those plants that are just about to be built. But let's see exactly what's happening at this South Korean company. This company is a huge battery recycling company, and on several occasions serious violations have been identified by the authorities. In the summer of last year, there was a so-called technological explosion, and despite the criminal prosecution, and the authorities tried to force the company to operate properly with fines, in March this year there was also an explosion at the Szentmiklós site, and it was also a fatal victim, unfortunately. According to the information received to me, there was already an investigation at the Bátonyterenye plant this spring, which made very serious findings, and banned the company from violating behaviour, and nevertheless this accident and the fire occurred on Friday evening. Well, the investigations at the company found that the situation was much worse than before, so compared to last year's studies, so this company was much further away from complying with the rules, even the control government officials reported skin irritation and mucosal irritation during the investigation. The authority found that there were illegal conditions on the site, illegal waste management activities were carried out, and the provisions of the waste management permit were not complied with for the third time by the company, and the third time was violated. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed several times in Parliament that there should be mandatory inspections of air quality, water quality and noise levels at such plants, and we have also suggested that these data should not be encrypted. We have suggested that the authorities really impose effective fines, and if companies fail to comply with this, so that they ignore the Hungarian legislation, then they have to pay back the billions of dollars of subsidies that are being paid to these companies with taxpayers' money, and if that is not enough, they will close these plants. You have said no to these proposals, even though you can see that some companies simply ignore legislation, ignore environmental rules. On this basis, I think it is not surprising that what the investigation of the Civil Forum in Debrecen showed is that 88 percent of people in Debrecen refuse to build battery factories, and it is not surprising that another national study showed that two thirds of Hungary refuse to implement battery factories precisely because of such environmental concerns. Dear Secretary of State, Or I don't know who the government's gonna answer. How can it happen in Hungary that these companies practically ignore Hungarian legislation as presented by the authorities? And how does it happen that you guys stand by and watch this? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-2	János Fónagy, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2023-06-12-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In his speech before the agenda, he touched on a very serious topic that employs all of us, all the more so because in Hungary safety, safety and safety of workers are the primary issues. You are absolutely right that 4.7 million people employed in themselves are a very good result, but the safety of these nearly 5 million people at work, compliance and enforcement of state rules on employment and work are a mandatory and primary task for everyone. However, in addition to the seriousness of the issue and the prevention of similar situations, and in the event of them being severely sanctioned, I would like to ask you with all due respect not to raise the mood against the technological development of Hungary's economy. [[13.20]] Where the world's technological needs take a country's economy, each country must decide, and each country seeks to be somewhere in the middleline of development or, if possible, in the follower's mid-field. It's not that I'm not doing anything, it's that I'm doing it right. It is not the solution that we do not start something, because unfortunately it is sometimes troublesome, but that I try to prevent these problems, regulate that area and consistently monitor compliance and enforcement of these rules. That's what we do. In the case mentioned by you, the OSH authority is outside; the police have continued and will continue their investigation. I declare with due responsibility to the public of Parliament and of the country that, if these investigations establish the institutional or personal responsibility of anyone, there is no failure to be held liable, in addition to the fact that obviously all necessary measures are taken to eliminate, alter or consistently comply with the rules applicable to the object or cause of trouble. As soon as the investigations are completed, we will inform you and, of course, the public of the country through the press. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-12-4	I now give the floor to Szabó Timea.
u2023-06-12-5	Ladies and gentlemen, The speech before the agenda is always about some current issue, but given that you now produce news practically from hour to hour that shows how the country is slipping down more and more, it is worth giving a comprehensive insight from time to time. Consider, for example, education. Now I won't even agree to how many thousands of teachers are missing, and thanks to the status law, how many more thousands of teachers will resign. You like to say that this is a liberal problem in Budapest. So let's look at some rural cases. A third of the faculty at this school said that they would stand up, because they simply no longer have control over the school principal protected by Fidesz, he runs the school so badly. In an almad school, a history teacher with graduate students was fired because he was a member of the teacher union; of course, the reason was that he was 2 percent below the required level; that is obviously not why he was fired. Then, at the Táncsics College in Kecskemét, it was also possible that a schoolgirl was kicked out of the dorm because she made a meme about the head of the dorm, who held the Hungarian tricolor flag vice versa, and God forbid that anything funny could be published about Comrade Bastya, so she was fired two weeks before graduation. So what you're doing with education is treason, total destruction of education, taking away the future of young people, future generations, but it's similar in health care. It's just that in the past few days there's been some news: a cancer patient waited five hours for an ambulance because it went to the wrong address. Dr. Róbert Kőnig, a pediatric surgeon, posted a Facebook post saying that children were treated alone in pediatric surgery throughout the territory of North and Central Hungary, because there is no doctor. This morning, at John's Hospital, moldy bread was served for breakfast; in the Tatabánya hospital, the appointment was given for the next year in ophthalmology. That's just news for the last few days again. The situation in the social field is not better either. Home caregivers who care for a child at home every day receive a net grant of HUF 132,000 per month from the government; those who raise or care for adults at home because the children grow up once, and they will not be able to care for themselves when they grow up, will receive HUF 57 400 from you as they preach about child protection; they will protect that Csaba Böjte [[Bence Rétvári: Don't start.]] who turned out to be under his supervision that eight-year-old boys were raped at the children's home. In addition, since then it has been revealed that he did not deny the recording that clearly revealed that he had had a lover, had sexual relations with a woman. [[Bence Rétvári: Shame on you!]] The press awaits his rebuttal; it has not arrived for weeks, so obviously there is truth in that. While you protect child abusers in a nasty and stomach-stricken way and do not protect victims, you talk about non-transmutation surgeries that do not exist in kindergartens, instead of offering real protection to children. And in the meantime, of course, propaganda is silent about the corruption scandal of the century, while what is the Schadl-Völner case about? About a single mother being evicted on the street with a cancer child so that your former secretary of state, Pál Völner, could make money out of it. A single in the V. district, under fidesz leadership, an elderly woman, who was a code researcher, was evicted for a debt of HUF 300,000, and then died. This is your government, this treason you're doing. We were just talking about the battery companies. Hungarian workers got sick: they threw up, they got diarrhea, they had a toxic accident at the battery factory in Ivanča because they didn't have any work clothes, while the South Korean workers had all kinds of protective equipment. We have the highest inflation rate, 25 per cent, while in Romania 10 per cent, in Slovakia and Poland 14 per cent, so a third in the countries bordering Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, Meanwhile, you guys really are half-educated, uplifted, organized puppies, giving billions of dollars to movies that no one's watching. The factory is now being bought from Tiborczek at Bosnyák tér for 245 billion, while it is not supposed to pay the teachers, or a building in Bosnyák tér, while the teachers are unable to raise their salary. They're fattening their own while they're being taken from people, but the thing is, this gigantic treason is gonna end someday, they're gonna get punished, and it's gonna be... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. Applause in the floors of the Dialogue.]]
u2023-06-12-6	Your time is up, Congresswoman, your time is up, that's the thing. I don't know who's going on this hopeless mission. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Make a connection for all of us in the speech with an answer, please. Thank you.
u2023-06-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, All he could do at the end of his speech was threaten me. [[Szabó Timea: No!]] You know how to do this, that's what you're doing, you're threatening me, you're threatening the ruling party, you're threatening the pro-government voters. Many times, it has been said that they will make everyone who, in addition to the government, gives their agreement [[Szabó Timea: Not us! Someday someone will.]] He can be an artist, he can be an entrepreneur. I have been told that everyone can expect that I think that you have personally made a special threat to them, not only others, but you are good at this, Madam honourable Member, but the Hungarian people do not really ask for it. You have led several municipalities since the autumn of 2019, and we can see that where you have set foot, the measures and the state of bankruptcy that are beyond your grasp of common sense have come to pass. When you have a responsibility somewhere, and you not only have to say a case, a newspaper title out loud, but you might have to prove it somewhere, you can't do it to this day, because you're not here to say that Gergely Christmas, let's say what you've achieved in Budapest, if you're even a member of your party, because we don't even know which party you are a member of, because DK... [[Szabó Timea: You don't need to know!]] We don't even need to know, of course, well, it's not up to the public that the mayor is [[Szabó Timea: The public knows!]] A member of one of the parties or not, Congresswoman, so they're not even sure that someone is. [[Szabó Timea: We are sure!]] party or not. On the other hand, they can only make accusations, and they have not been able to produce any results from the period of governance of the left or ever since. For example, you talked about the case of care fees, to which you have spent a fraction of what this government has. You have spent some 12 billion forints on this, while we have now raised the amount of 50 billion forints that we are spending on a care fee, precisely to provide the broadest possible support for those most in need. And when we voted on this, neither you nor your left-wing party colleagues voted on it here in Parliament, say, in December 2018, because they had other more important things to do, they caused a scandal at that meeting. [[13.30]] You will never be able to deliver results that, say, one million more jobs will be created in one country. High levels of unemployment can be shown by left-wing governments, but they cannot show record employment. You have never been able to break a record of female employment in a positive sense in Hungary, but you have been able to show record unemployment. You have not been able to create a tax system that would encourage people to work and encourage employers to offer legal jobs to people, you have not been able to develop the economy, but you have also decommissioned the economy during the period of economic activity. When there is a record high business tax income in Budapest, Budapest is a failure. When you collect as much business tax as you have never done before, you announce that the municipality has become insolvent. And this is no different in the field of educators. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you would stop your activities in the last one place where you still have some political influence, in the European Parliament you will be hindered from raising the Hungarian teacher's wages and will not stop the 800 billion forints we intend to raise from our own European Union resources from getting ahead of the Hungarian teachers. You can criticize a lot of people who qualify for a percentage on a test, but I think it's more important to the left than to take a stand in individual cases, to finally stop doing something that hinders them, because I don't think anyone in their right mind will find any excuse to get paid by teachers. Compared to this, from Csaba Molnár to Congressman Ara-Kovács or even to Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev, there are quotes about you working to make it better for teachers so that there will be no higher-value wage increases. Those MEPs simply pocket 6 million forints in order to prevent Hungarian teachers from paying 800 thousand forints by 2025. That is all we should do, honourable Member. [[To interrupt Szabó Timea:]] You can yell at hundreds of billions here, but let me tell you a number, a high one: 4,000 billion forints; that's what the sanctions cost Hungary last year. 4,000 billion forints, the sanctions you support everywhere! You are one of the most pro-war Members of Parliament. [[Szabó Timea: You are the pro-war!]] We don't know exactly where you're getting this assignment, and we don't know exactly where you're getting those messages that you're supposed to be in front of the public, but you're one of the most combative pro-wars in the Dialogue. If the war were to end, if the sanctions were to end, it would be the safest way to reduce inflation, and at last the stores would have less to buy. And what you're doing about it, it's still an instigation of war. If there is something wrong with Hungarian doctors, nurses, educators, families, pensioners and people, it is your incitement to war, and the fact that this war unfortunately lasts for a very long time with sanctions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-8	Congresswoman! It's probably boring for a lot of people, but I can't just walk past the behavior you've been doing here from week to week on Monday. During the short period when you are in the Chamber, I think many do not mind that this is the case, you are not able to do anything other than, as they say in the slang, try to trot the meeting apart. You had five minutes to tell Mr. Secretary of State in the same way, and the Secretary of State did not keep commenting out loud on your comment, and believe me, there would have been a demand for it, but you are doing it now. This behavior, I have to say, is infantile. I'm sorry. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabó Timea: That's your opinion!]] That's not my opinion. I think that the congresswoman should go to a professional, that is the point where I must advise you on this. Let's keep moving. László Toroczkai, leader of the Hungarian faction. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-12-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yesterday, in the city of Békés, the representative of the Mi Hazank Movement beat Fidesz's candidate with 52 percent result at the interim municipal elections by more than 10 percent. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]] In this town, in the city of Békés, last Friday, I held a common street forum with our winning candidate, Mihal Földesi, which was the last stop of a three-month country trip. In this street forum, I also faced the fact that, during the three-month period of country travel, Hungarians were outraged by the various actions of the government on the sarcasm and taxation, for example, how upset the original ideas about wells have been about Hungarians living in the countryside in particular, what you have planned. We are very pleased that with this national campaign and many of our speeches here, we have managed to get the government to come to a better understanding and eventually back down on this matter, and we will be able to vote on well amnesty, if all is true, this week. But I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that there are many other problems in which our country's Movement would like to back off the government, because the government's misguided economic policy is the reason why such feats are being imposed, various tax increases are constantly taking place. I mean, you know it as well as we do that the state register is empty. We've seen the budget, we know the budget deficit. To this end, we have been able to prevent the various faces or even taxes on wells, as in the case of Belgium, where this well registration has already been carried out. But in a creative way, you find new opportunities to cast new faces on the Hungarians, because simply because of their bad, failed economic policy, the state register is empty. This is obviously the category of excise duty increases, which, unfortunately, will now be one of the most expensive in Europe in terms of petrol prices, fuel prices, or even the 13 percent tax on Hungarian savings. It doesn't matter whether they refer to social reasons or what, but it's obviously about taxing Hungarians with different, more creative methods. And they still don't understand that their economic policies are to blame. The economic policy that the Fidesz governments and Balliberal-Globalist governments have been pursuing for 33 years. That is why we have come to the point that, while you are protesting at least here and at the level of communication, you are protesting against the crazy idea adopted in Luxembourg by the Home Affairs Ministers of the Member States of the European Union, on which economic immigrants and migrants must be divided, and if Hungary does not accept it, then EUR 20,000 per person will have to be paid, and this must be rejected to the fullest extent! Our Homeland Movement strongly protests against all such insane ideas in Brussels. Our only problem is that we are not only dealing with wellamnesty here in Parliament this week, but we also have their proposal on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary, the author of which is Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. It also shows that while you are protesting against the crazy economic migrant policy in Brussels, you really want the same thing, because what other reason would there be for Parliament to accept such a history at all, which will allow the influx of migrant workers. In your proposal, in this bill, not even a number of people, there is no limit. So millions of people from Bangladesh, India or Africa could stream in seconds if your economic policy is to continue, as you will always be a party to those global corporations, supporting them with tax incentives or infrastructure design, as in the case of battery companies, who build their own economic policies on cheap foreign, foreign and non-European labour. This means not only that they are actually replacing the population in Hungary, but it is also about breaking down even more the still shameful wages and salaries in Hungary. After all, the aim of this economic policy is to find workers from Bangladesh or Africa for whom much less wages, much less wages are enough, which is already impossible to survive in Hungary with such food inflation and such inflation indicators. I therefore ask for the answer to how it is possible that such a law must be adopted at all because of your misguided economic policy. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-06-12-10	Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, In his speech he said most of the time that Hungary, the Hungarian government, is pursuing a failed economic policy. Well, let's take a look at the facts. If you were the best critic of Hungary's tax system in your context, let us look back a little bit where this country started 13 years ago, where the Hungarian budget started, where the Hungarian economy started, what the Hungarian businesses were in and what the Hungarian families were in. [[13.40]] If we look at Hungarian economic policy in this context, the following changes have occurred. Firstly, a million new jobs have been created. A million new jobs. True, you did not sit here at the National Assembly at the time, but I remember that left-wing Members thought it was ridiculous and unfulfilled even then. Then Hungary's economic performance in the 2010s was very weak and belonged to the last third of the European Union. If we look at the economic performance achieved by the decisions and economic policy decisions of the Hungarian government in economic growth, then we can see that Hungary was one of the European Union's best, it is essentially Hungary in comparison with the past thirteen years. The same is true if we look at the state of society, the state of the country. In 2010, in the '10s, a large majority of people were dealing with the foreign exchange credit crisis, dealing with how they could come out of this, how they could straighten out their family, how they could forget about it. I think that, at European level as well as at European level, the government and Parliament have taken exemplary decisions that have resolved this and that families have been able to relax in this respect. But let's look at the tax system you're criticizing. Hungary's tax system in the 2010s, if we look at the key of the tax administration, was above 20 percent, and according to one calculation the Hungarian government did not collect this much VAT, such a system was then established. Today, the same percentage is 5 percent, and hopefully it will sink below 5 percent this year. This means that the Hungarian government has taken economic whitening measures that have resulted in this. But let us see how Hungary stands with regard to the total tax burden. In the 2010s it was well over 40 percent, and today this figure is less than 40 percent, about 38 percent, so Hungary also did well in terms of overall tax burden. But I am not the only one saying this, if we look at it, we can see that in recent years credit rating agencies, which are very strict with our country and with other countries, have not been able to offer downgrades, no credit rating agency has been able to offer, to say that Hungary is clearly still among the countries recommended for investment. I think that it is because it allows the economic performance of the economy to grow... Labour shortages are no longer surplus labour, but there is a shortage of labour in the market, not only in Hungary, but in virtually all of Europe, and in neighbouring Slovakia, Western Europe, obviously everyone is doing everything they can to maintain the performance of the economy. This requires steps that allow Hungarians across the border to work more easily in our country. Finally, the increase in excise duty, as you know, is Brussels, a requirement of the European Union, which the Hungarian government is obliged to implement. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-12	I now give the floor to Jobbik's representative, Brenner Koloman. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The current Fidesz government has submitted the budget for 2024. Let us now overlook a balanced civil democracy in which we conservatives believe [[Mr. Moraj, there's a crack in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: You have believed in many things!]] It's an irresponsible government policy when a government submits a budget to the Parliament before the summer, with corner numbers that have always been proven for many years later, that it's only gonna be that you're so addicted to some kind of hard drug, regulation governance, that you can then regroup the money back and forth in it. Six percent inflation. Compared to this, inflation in Orbán is still above 30% in terms of food, my honourable fellow Members, and inflation in Orbán is still well above 20 percent in general. I understand that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has ordered inflation to be reduced, but generally according to economics, this is not how it works. We must therefore say that this is an unsubstantiated budget in which you are planning EU funds, while Fidesz Minister Martin Nagy is quite openly saying that you no longer expect any European Union funds to arrive in our country this year. Once again, this is only the fault of the current Fidesz government, because, during your 13-year government, you have systematically dismantled the rule of law and, in practice, implemented systemic corruption in the system of overpriced prices in our country, in which the other EU Member States have decided to hold back the funds owed to Hungarian citizens, which is your responsibility, although, in the very difficult economic and social crisis, Hungarian citizens would very much need these funds. On the other hand, I note that Hungarian citizens have already lost serious billions, because we have already lost a lot of the Restoration Fund's money, and they have not even fulfilled their commitments if we think about 27 milestones. All you guys sound at this point is that it is only in Brussels, in Brussels, where, by the way, the Hungarian politician, who is Brussels, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, is voting for all sanctions. In this regard, we reject all extreme positions on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives, so we reject the DK concept of the European United States in the same way, but we also reject Fidesz' anti-EU and anti-Western policy, because we know that Europe is our security and NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of extremes, allow me to bring another subject here, namely the class struggle on the roads. The lifestyle side and some green politicians see it as a class struggle for roads between pedestrians, public transport users, motorists and cyclists. We conservatives know precisely that this is a dangerous policy, instigating these social groups against each other, even though we know that every Hungarian citizen sometimes walks on foot, sometimes he walks by bicycle in the downtown of a large city, sometimes he gets on the tram in the village where there is tram, and if he lives in a settlement in the country we know well, then he will certainly not walk several kilometers to the bus stop, but he must get in a car to move. That is why we reject all the class-warrior instigation in which only the good drivers and the traffic lanes are the victories that I then paint, as well as the fidesz policy that excelled the car society in our country, not only would you have been able to face Brussels with the current increase in excise duty, dear comrades of Fidesz, closed with a parentheses [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And by the way, if you buy a Suzuki in our country, it's a normal price, a list price of 7 million for a new car, you will collect 2 million forints from them on tax. What's this if it's not an affront to the car society? We Jobbik-Conservatives are free of all extremes to know that harmoniously and everyone's right to safe transport must be guaranteed by an extremely calm and conservative policy that we alone represent. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-06-12-14	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2023-06-12-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The honourable Member has mentioned a number of topics. I'd like to start with the economic questions. We may agree on one thing: that the economy, the Hungarian economy and the entire European economy have narrowed down, and even if they try to deny it, European decisions have a lot to do with it, and they have the most to do with the situation. Because the rise in energy prices that not only Hungary but practically every country in Europe is forced to endure is a percentage-measurable reduction in European GDP, not by us, but also by a number of international analysts, which simply means that Europe is forced to face the biggest setback of the world's major economic regions, so that, according to some calculations by the World Bank, Europe cannot hope for economic growth. [[13.50]] So I understand that they are trying to make it look like what we are facing is only Hungary's problem, but all of Europe has been facing unprecedented economic challenges for decades. For example, if we look at inflation, there hasn't been such inflation in Europe since the 1970s and 1980s. And that is what also reduces the scope of the Hungarian economy. The energy bill is the only one we've talked about, but it doesn't seem to take into account that it has increased by HUF 4000 billion in Hungary alone. Under these circumstances, the main question is what the government does. A number of measures have been decided in recent years, months. We're maintaining the price-stop facility no matter how much it's attacked. He was well-educated, he also had good experience with the establishment of the shops that were introduced a few days ago, which means that they have to advertise promotions in twenty product range to the largest shops. We hope this will help our customers. We'll also keep the interest rate stop in place. This is a huge contrast to the time when no support was given to families facing otherwise increased interest and interest charges during an economic crisis. We will also maintain the premium, and we will maintain them in the next year's budget. You and your allies considered all this, this measure, to be foolish. If they still think it's stupid, they should think that every family would have to pay nearly HUF 200,000, HUF 181 thousand more a month if these energy price-stop measures were not in place. New decisions were also made, such as the county lease, which the left-wing government association did not think of, the more it remembered the closure of the wing lines. On the other hand, we reduce the burden on travellers. The 13th month pension has been restored and even increased for all pensioners since January. I could continue with a series of such measures. As far as the budget is concerned, if you have already mentioned the draft budget, I am glad that you have at least taken a look at it: you have not said anything about the fact that much more will be available even in this narrowing room. There will be 400 billion more defence spending compared to this year, 629 billion more education expenditure. By the way, there is an extra 235 billion higher education. If I look at the area of education, there will be nearly 2,000 billion more available compared to 2010 and 1989 billion more. In the field of health, this increase is 424 billion compared to this year and over 2000 billion compared to 2010. So while you're talking about a shrinking budget, and you're talking about no support for anyone, the budget figures you're referring to show something completely different. With regard to the issue of EU funds: I understand that you are missing these, but then why you joined a party alliance that will do everything in its power not to receive these funds. You started on a joint list with those who stood up a few days ago, held a press conference and announced that they wanted to press for more demands through Brussels towards Hungary. Then they come to Parliament and ask the government why EU money hasn't come. How's that? As regards the two extremes, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Fidesz?]] : We do not want European united states either, but why do you join those who want to? As far as EU membership is concerned, we believe that this is a national interest. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And there is only one party in Hungary that argued against EU membership, called Jobbik. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Time's up!]] Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-16	Next up is MSZP representative Zoltán Vajda. I give you the floor.
u2023-06-12-17	Dear Parliament, I asked for a floor before the agenda because this week Parliament is starting to deal with a particularly important proposal. At least it should be particularly important, but it can't be further away from it, and it's now more of a piece of shit. And unfortunately, these two adjectives are enough for everyone to identify: yes, it is about the budget. 'Cause these papers [[He's showing it to me.]] that is the name given to it as a budget; but it has nothing to do with it. It's not a budget, it's a bullshit! I can see why they don't want a graduate to put together a guy like that, they don't need one. How can this be taken seriously when it has nothing to do with reality? ! Let's say the page count might be right. Dear House, It's hard to put it another way, especially considering the budget for the last year. What's this about? I remind you of the plans that have been presented here: they expected more than 4 percent GDP growth, the reality is that Hungary has been in a technical recession for almost a year; they expected inflation of 5 percent, I repeat, they expected 5 percent. This has all been achieved three times too, which we may no longer call a statistical margin of error, and by far an absolute record score in the European Union. Such a useless budget has been accepted by the supposedly respected House. How did it end? Last December it was amended by decree, submitted to Parliament in February this year, and we were able to vote on it at the end of March. That's as much as a budget can go. And what lesson did they learn? Nothing! They started again in May. Dear House, I've been chairman of the Committee on Budgets for less than a year, and I'll be able to use their third budget. I'm free to work, I don't have a problem with that, but this budget is so weak again, it would be better for the country to take it back. Believe me, it's not a good idea to plan a budget as if it's a lottery, which means we're gonna have numbers, and maybe we'll get our tips. Is this really what they expect the market to calm down and see their supposedly predictable economic policy? Is that really what you're looking for when you guys, by decree, introduce new special taxes and other tax increases overnight? Or when the individual appropriations will be amended a hundred times, so that the final result has nothing to do with the versions adopted by Parliament? Dear Fidesz, think about the latter, so how will they build canopy canopy canes in Hungary, right? Dear House, The reality is that their government has posed an economic risk to the Hungarian people, and it is increasingly expensive to finance it. Each Hungarian person has to pay about HUF 150,000 more a year to finance the Hungarian government debt because of the Orbán risk. I repeat: every Hungarian has an extra charge of approximately 150 thousand forints. It's real! Just like the reality is that you, the government, are the obstacle to EU funds finally arriving in the Hungarian economy. Dear House, What has the European Union asked the Hungarian Cabinet to do with the budget? On the one hand, I want you to get the special taxes out at the end of this year. These are paid by the Hungarian people eventually, as companies collect them from families through the prices anyway. The EU has proposed to forget about this summer budget because no one can take it seriously, lottery tips can be difficult to evaluate professionally. What was the answer to the two questions? On the one hand, special taxes have been extended, and on the other hand, the level of which has been raised, so that prices and inflation continue to increase. And their answer to the other question is obvious: when we discuss this budget this week, we call it a budget. And if we add to this the words of Márton Nagy that the Hungarian economy does not even need EU funds, it is better to forget them, all of this points to the fact that the government's every move is to prevent EU funds from arriving. I'm right, because it's not about taking out special taxes, it's about raising them in Parliament. I'm right, because in June, and not in November, we're discussing the budget of the 24-year term on the basis of an approved accounts. I am right, because instead of talking about 270 start-up projects in the EU, Lazarus published a list of 270 cancelled developments. I am right, because Márton Nagy is not talking about the fact that the working capital is super good, but we cannot give up EU money. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Do whatever it takes to get the EU's money here, that's your job. If they do not, the crisis will have to be dealt with. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2023-06-12-18	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2023-06-12-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Perhaps in his speech I thought it was a sure fact, and the fact that the budget for 2024 is in front of the Parliament, and his trial begins tomorrow. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Basically, I was taking notes here, and from the first minute I could remember two words he said, it's cheap and lame. It's a huge achievement in a minute, but if you've used that word, then, although you didn't sit in Parliament before 2010, you've been studying the budgets of your party, your party's party before 2010, and if you study it, you'll realize that you've failed to meet the budget deficit in one year. For six years, the Hungarian budget has managed either the first or the second largest deficit in the European Union. Well, that's true, it's cheap and crappy. What the Hungarian Government creates as a budget and presents to Parliament, I think, is the responsibility of a responsible and responsible government, the Ministry of Finance, which has one goal to maintain the country's financial balance in order to meet the social policy and economic policy objectives set out in the budget. If you will allow me, I would not read your opinion, but I would like to read the opinion of an organisation designated by law, and this is the Budget Council: the Council does not have any fundamental objections to the credibility and enforceability of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2024 which would justify a sign of disagreement with the plan. At the same time, the council feels obliged to draw the government's attention to some risks. This is the opinion of the Fiscal Council, so it does not ask for a new budget, nor does it ask for an amendment in the budget. Let's see what the State Audit Office says. The total value of the revenue appropriations of the draft budget law for 2024 was 86,1 per cent of the total revenue, 99,8 per cent of the appropriations selected for the evaluation of its feasibility can be achieved and 0.2 per cent carries a risk. On this basis, the overall revenue of the budget bill for 2024 can be achieved. So your accusations are denied by two institutions, I think, a responsible and expert institution. Now, let's see what you said here five minutes ago. One of his claims is that we've changed the budget a hundred times. I think either you don't understand or you don't want to understand. The transfer of one government from one appropriation to another within the general budget amount, without amending the budget deficit, is not a modification of the budget. This is the government's legal opportunity when it comes to one appropriation for another within the budget... wartime, economic sanctions, I think the government is right to do so. Another statement: Hungarians will not pay any more forints because the financing of Hungarian public finances through your great activities is that EU funds will not arrive, thus the interest costs and external financing will be more expensive, this is not the burden of Hungarian people. Precisely that the Hungarian people still have family tax incentives, the support systems remain. You're criticizing the fact that we're not running an extra profit yet. Who are you judging? We're taxing companies and companies that, due to the war situation, because of economic sanctions, produce extra profit, and we're collecting it, and that's what's going to be added to the Rehabilitation Fund. Basically, you're protecting multi-company companies with this claim. I think that the presentation of the budget and the budget's main amounts are realistic and can be achieved. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-12-20	Now it's time for Momentum representative, András Fekete-Győr. I give you the floor.
u2023-06-12-21	Dear Parliament, Let's remember the late night of May 31, 2023. In the Puskás Arena, Seville will compete with the AS Roma team in the European League finals. Their government spokesperson Alexandra Szentkirályi tries to place a bet on her Facebook page on which team will continue to march from the final. The children are sleeping, having fun in downtown Budapest, and there are others who are still working. Among them are the employees and employees of the Ministry of Justice's Ministry of Public Administration, who in these very hours sharpen the latest restriction of Fidesz in the Hungarian Gazette, right, the interest tax. Not for the first time and probably not for the last time, this method is used in Fidesz. During Covid's period, let's remember that restaurant owners, waiters, bartenders looked at the Hungarian Gazette around 23 hours and 40 minutes to see if they could go to work the next day. On 30 December last year, in the same time band, health legislation was amended. My question to you is that there is a reason for this beyond the contempt of the Hungarian people. Is there any reason why you can't stand up to people and tell them openly what government is all about? I am a special lawyer, but what I cannot understand is where it is normal for you to expect people to browse the Hungarian Gazette uploaded in the pdf from line to line, to find out how you will live in a day or a week later. And last week, we managed to cross another line. At least so far, the bank's money could have been safe for the person who paid that little tax on his work. Now, during the Seville-Roma game, once again, someone really doesn't like football in their government has decided to levy a 13 percent tax on interest. So tens of thousands of Hungarians should convert their savings in a month, which are often committed for years. My question is, what did they think of this: will everyone quickly take their money out of the committed deposit to account for a few losses and move it into sovereign debt? Well, congratulations, nice austerity and middle class special tax have been imposed on the savings that would otherwise have been used to counterbalance the inflation of the European record in Orbán. Perhaps even more cynicism than night publishing, when the next day Martin the Great Minister for Economic Development asks so much about the new Fidesz austerity, who cares how much money we collect. Well, for example, I am interested, for example, and the ten thousand Hungarians whose savings you are messing with are interested. Today you can take 72 out of 100 HUF of interest, the rest will be taken by the government, unless you tie it down to sovereign debt. I don't want to talk about sovereign debt, but I ask you, does the Fidesz government give any assurance that the sovereign debt will not have an extra tax burden in a year or two or three? So how can you trust a government, my fellow Members, which regularly rewrites the weekdays and rules of Hungarians' lives around 23:40? Dear Parliament, There is one important thing that Hungarians have seen in the past 13, but if I am to be honest, they have not really experienced in the last 20 years: predictability; for example, a year in Hungary where tax laws do not change when it is possible to plan ahead. Fidesz had more than a decade of economic activity, an increase in the economy, EU money spilled. Compared to this, there are more than 50 taxes in Hungary today, and there is a constant fear among people of whom the Orbán government is accusing, who the Orbán government is putting aside. And there was a turn for everyone, from the katás graphic designer, to the middle class with the savings. This is how we managed to take advantage of the economic recovery of a decade, fellow Members. And it is no wonder that today you and, unfortunately, you and the Hungarian economy are in the middle of the crisis. [[Bence Rétvári: Na, Gábor Kuncze!]] [[14.10]] When Momentum will govern Hungary, our goal will be to ensure that life is predictable, that life can be planned, that the tax laws will not change for years, and that if you don't give it to God, then there will be time to prepare, and no Hungarian government will feel that the Hungarian government is working against it specifically. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause from the ranks of DK, Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2023-06-12-22	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2023-06-12-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to assure you that no soccer match has anything to do with the operation of the administration. I am so glad that you have followed the European League Final in Budapest, because it means that you have some interest in football, and perhaps we can even get to it once that you are willing to cheer for the Hungarian National Team. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh, come on! This is so embarrassing.]] Even if you try to make this go away, Mr. Congressman has discussed it earlier. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] that he is not necessarily able to cheer for the Hungarian National Team. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Why should we deal with this? What were you doing at Liszt Ferenc Square? That's what we should be talking about.]] If this is a step in this direction, I think it's a good thing. The question of taxation is more important than that. If you have looked at these figures, you can see that the tax burden in Hungary has decreased significantly during the current governance. This is also true of businesses and the taxation of families. It was this government that significantly reduced, for example, the personal income tax rates, and introduced a single key instead of the previous two-key tax system. [[Szabolcs Szabó: How much is VAT?]] This key is much lower than the previous highest, and we would like to keep it here even during this period. It was this government that significantly reduced corporate tax rates. This is completely contrary to your ambition. You campaigned for the global minimum tax, which would have been a much higher tax level for businesses, by the way. If we recall the kata, the left-wing Members criticized the amendments so that when the government introduced it, they did not vote at all. It was this government that provided family tax incentives for families. We're maintaining this right now. There was no such measure before. It was this government that granted total tax exemption to people under the age of 25, with no income tax. You did not suggest such a thing at all, or there was no such measure during left-wing governance. We know what they're suggesting when the Momentum governs or governs. It is in their program that they want to design or introduce a two-key income tax. That is not a lower level of taxation or taxation, honourable Member, but a much higher level of taxation. And on the basis of their previous programme, it means that, on the basis of the tax level proposed there, a citizen returning an average salary in Hungary would already fall below the higher tax rate. They'd put a huge face on the shoulders of people from work, that's the thing. This is usually the time when momentary politicians don't understand when we're arguing about it. I suggest you take a look at that massive, big program of yours, including the two-key income tax proposal with high tax rates and a specific amount of money on where this would be introduced and would result in a much higher tax burden. Now you've classified the government's activities. Allow me to say a few words about the activities of the Momentum, because anyone who monitors your history of development, your history of origin, can see the order of a political force that somehow always acts contrary to the interests of the country and to the expectations of Hungarian citizens. For example, you proposed to send weapons to the war before this was a general position on the left. They argued that half the world is doing this, while not half the world is doing it, but a number of European countries are doing it wrong, because that is not what their citizens expect of them. Even when tens of thousands of people have already lost their lives, including Transcarpathian Hungarians, you continue the policy of drifting into war. They argue that pro-peace is the policy of the hands and pro-peace without sending weapons, and I quote nonsense and disgusting, so you put it. Did you really manage to draw this from the historical tragedies of the past centuries in Hungary? ! [[András Fekete-Győr: Russkik home, this has been deducted!]] You have campaigned from the very beginning for the sanctions that bind Hungary, the Hungarian economy, to weight. And the most serious thing they've done has yet to come, because the European Commission is now being called upon to raise additional conditions for the payment of EU funds, namely in the area of education, where the European Commission does not have any powers. So the momentful politicians, after taking an oath to represent the country's interests in Brussels, who are taking a salary of 5-6 million in Brussels, are now trying to prevent EU funds from arriving [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] And the teachers get a bigger raise, and that's why, as I understand it, they've even started collecting signatures. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Against inflation in Orbán, yes!]] It is difficult to understand, honourable Member, why you are doing this. We have been discussing and adopting legislative amendments. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It turns out that our war position is actually the problem, and the Momentum is coming, which would create new conditions. But there is still a question of who you represent in this debate. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-24	Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK, also came forward before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2023-06-12-25	Dear House, New inflation figures have appeared, and again they show that inflation in Orbán is racing further. You can enjoy how much it has been reduced, but there is still more than 20 percent inflation, still a European champion, still three times the EU average, still more than in any neighbouring country. Then you can tell me about the sanctions and the war and the climate and everything. The fact is that your product, Viktor Orbán's product, is inflation in Orbán. Of course, you don't care. I understand that these problems are not seen in the world of private aircraft, luxury yachts, champagne and lobster; it is not apparent that Hungarians pay more for bread every month for basic food, it is not apparent that people are living more and more difficult, as the current inflation figure means that you have taken 200 out of every thousand forints of inflation from people's pockets in the last year. Of course, you are not interested in this, because there is another Hungary. The research data that shows that one percent of the rich Hungarians own one third of the country's wealth has just come to light. Do you understand what I'm saying? Of every thousand forints, 333 forints is in the pocket of this 1 percent. And who is this 1 percent? I'll tell you! [[Intercoms in the pro-government line: Gyurcsány! Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] They're showing us last year's economic data. Only Lőrinc Mészáros, Viktor Orbán's brilliant gas mechanic friend pocketed 1600 million forints of dividends last year. The winners of the state casino concession were István Garancsi, Árpád Habony, Zoltán Rákosfalvy, Gábor Sima 1240 million, 5000 million and 900-900 million forints. The thing is, ladies and gentlemen, of course, they are not the only ones who are doing well in business. Andrea Várkonyi received HUF 850 million in taxes with his company, Philip Rákay earned HUF 1283 million, Ákos Kovács HUF 275 million, the company linked to Ádám Matolcsy's name HUF 362 million, Attila Pataky's company HUF 99 million, and even Zsolt Bayer had 89 million. And, of course, family is family, so let's not forget the Prime Minister's family. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán took a dividend of HUF 2 billion from his father's companies in 2022, and István Tiborcz also received HUF 2 billion. Journalists estimate that the Orbán family's wealth exceeds or at least close to HUF 100 billion. There has never been such inequality in this society, no government has ever allowed the rich to be so richer and the poor to be so poorer, so that a narrow elite can lay hands on most of the country's wealth. And with you, it's not a system error, it's not a mistake, it's not something you've messed up. No. That's the purpose of the exercise. You will ensure that you and your successors are rich for their eternal lives, while the Hungarian people will be poor for their eternal lives if the Orbán government remains. He won't stay. Because while you are getting richer and richer with entrepreneurs, relatives, friends and business partners associated with you, what do Hungarian citizens get? Petrol price increase, deposits tax or even taxation of medicines, which not only destroys one of the few remaining Hungarian industries, but will also make them more expensive or missing important medicines. [[14.20]] Of course, I understand that this does not matter to Viktor Orbán and his family who owns a hundred billion. I understand that it doesn't matter to you and your business partners, but it does matter to the Hungarian people that they are living worse and worse because of the twice as high food prices, the sevenfold increase in gas and electricity prices. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that we are going to change that. Klara Dobrev's shadow government will put this world on its feet from its head. [[Delight and murmur in the pro-government benches.]] We will fight to give more support to people living in a difficult situation, to increase wages and pensions, and to pay those who have been rich in our fat, the sweat of citizens in the last ten years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-26	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2023-06-12-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Well, from inflation to inflation, but how did you get there? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Unfortunately we can't hear it, or fortunately!]] What he said, he said, "How much dividends have been taken out of his company in the last year, how much money he's got." You missed one thing: your own boss. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány in the last 30 years [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh!]] How much dividends did he take out of his companies? [[Uproar and interruptions from DK's ranks: How much? And how many state tenders were there?!]] And then he forgot... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: How many state applications were there?]]
u2023-06-12-28	Relax. Relax. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: We're calm!]]
u2023-06-12-29	Then he also forgot how Ferenc Gyurcsány got his fortune, let's say, his house. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What? How's that?]] How did you get it back in the day? [[Interviews from DK's ranks: Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What? Tell me.]] Well, you know, you know very well. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Tell me.]] Is that an example in front of you? Or how did Ferenc Gyurcsány get his companies at the change of regime? You didn't tell me about that either. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Tell me.]] He didn't say anything about that either. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well, tell me about it. Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Master of great retaliation!]] As regards inflation, [[Interviews from DK: Let's hear it.]] You haven't read the latest KSH report, here it is. [[Defiance in DK's ranks. Gergely Harvester: Illustrate!]] I recommend it to you. That says exactly the opposite of what you say.
u2023-06-12-30	My apologies, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask Mr Harvesto and Ms Agnes Vadai to behave in a manner that can be expected of a large group of kindergarteners in a certain circle. I want you to listen to Mr. Secretary of State without waking up to what he has to say. If you ask to speak, try to do so in accordance with the house rules, if I can, I will give it to you. But for the time being, I have no way of speaking to you, but I only have the opportunity to ask you to behave in the manner that is appropriate for a Member of Parliament. In the absence of Congresswoman Timea Szabó, I repeat what I said to her, that if you cannot handle yourself, you should contact a specialist. This is more than enough of what you're doing! Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Mr. President, don't insult me, please. Don't insult me.]]
u2023-06-12-31	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, As far as inflation is concerned, the KSH report contradicts you precisely, according to which the rate of inflation is 21.5 per cent per year. This doesn't mean that the situation is good and okay, but it's definitely good news. [[Interrogation from DK's ranks: "To whom?"]] That, in comparison to months and months, prices have fallen by 0.4 percent, and this is certainly encouraging for the future, if this is not good news for you, that the decline in inflation has started significantly. What is factual, however, is that the government is trying to take various measures for those who are negatively affected by inflation, these Hungarian families and, of course, Hungarian businesses. As regards Hungarian families, the most important measure is that the government can maintain the reduced result. [[László Varju: It's called a lie!]] up to an average consumption and included in the budget for the years 23 and 24 respectively, the Retirement Fund is a cover for this. The government was able to produce significant results in terms of price caps as it was able to maintain the reduced price for one year in terms of fuel prices. [[László Varju: You have to raise your taxes, don't you?]] This is the case with regard to other foods to this day. But you can say the interest-stop decision to protect thousands of businesses and thousands of individuals from it. [[László Varju: And the other 600,000?]] So he doesn't have to pay market interest. I believe that significant decisions have also been made with regard to businesses, in particular those businesses that have been able to protect the workplace, and they wanted to do so, and they were willing to make decisions, possibly to make improvements, or to give workers other subsidies and benefits, so that jobs can be protected during a difficult period. What is still a significant decision on the part of the government is the protection of pensioners, as pensioners have received a pension increase equal to the rate of inflation in recent years, at least in the same way as the pension increase, and to this comes the 13th month pension, which they received in full in the last year. What, then, is the most important objective? The most important thing is that we can protect the results we have achieved: jobs, reduction of costs, the protection of pensions and the protection of families. These are the main elements of the budget for 2024. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-32	Now it's KDNP's faction leader. I give the floor to Congressman István Simicskó.
u2023-06-12-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last week, a hairy decision was taken in Brussels, voting in favour of a compulsory migrant quota [[Defiance and intervention from DK's ranks: What's wrong with that?]] at the meeting of the Council of Home Ministers. I wouldn't laugh at that if I were you, but, well, you know. Of course, we all know that this European Union has long since been what its founders Konrad Adenauer, Robert Schuman and De Gasperi have dreamed of, far from the values, goals and intentions of the founding fathers. There is war in eastern Europe, here in our neighbourhood, thousands dying, millions suffering. What are they doing in Brussels? Common sense would dictate a peace plan, but that's not what they do. That's not what they're doing! It is recalled that in 2012, the European Union received a Nobel Peace Prize. Today he's pro-war, just like you, Honourable Left. We've got weapons, weapons, and more weapons on the broad line of the front. It is safe to say that today's European Union has become unworthy of the Nobel Peace Prize. Instead of writing war scenarios, he accepted a migrant quota plan instead of a peace plan, wrote a new invitation letter to Africa, Asia, and many parts of the world. They continue to encourage smugglers, come, dear migrants, and we will distribute you to all the Member States of the European Union, including Hungary. Amazing, honourable Members, what is happening today in the European Union, in Brussels! Obviously, if we approach it on the part of Hungarian humor, then not only in the L'art pour l'art, Uncle Pista Besenyő asks, "Is it normal?" But very, very many, because they see the damage to this migration policy, they see the danger. Dear Parliament, Brussels is clearly abusing its power. He wants to make an immigrant country out of all EU countries, including Hungary. They made a decision over the heads of the Hungarians. We don't like that. There was a referendum in Hungary, 3.4 million Hungarians gave their views on not asking for migrants, not asking for the compulsory quota. Nevertheless, this decision has been made above our heads in Brussels. What is still relevant is that this is causing a much bigger problem, because we have already had problems with the Christian civilization in Europe, and we have given it another push down the slope with this decision. This decision strengthens the path of self-destruction in Brussels. What we are seeing today, and what the European Union is doing, is clearly a policy that aims to make our Christian civilization's past, culture, roots, values, traditions disappear. [[14.30]] All civilizations created by man are unique and have many values in their time, in their place, in their geographical location. In any event, the mass and artificial mixing of civilizations created on different religious bases poses a serious risk and a serious threat to all civilizations, including Christian civilization in Europe. We see the harmful effects of this, we see the terrorist attacks, we see the stabbings, we see the different behaviors that pose a threat to all of us. We, Christian democrats, see that we must vote in favour of equal, cooperative civilizations, cooperating nations, this is what we must support, not the realisation and creation of a united, homogeneous humanity. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me remind you that the proposal for compulsory distribution of migrants in the European Parliament was voted in favour of and supported by representatives of the Hungarian left, including Klára Dobrev, Katalin Cseh, Anna Donáth, Csaba Molnár and others. We remember what the same characters said a few years ago. Among other things, Ágnes Kunhalmi said that the false problem of migration, Fidesz invented the whole thing, does not exist. Klára Dobrev said: It compares migration to UFOs, migration does not exist, and neither do UFOs, considered it a communication trick, and there are no pro-immigration plans, no mandatory quota. And we see that there is, but there is, my fellow Members. We do not want Hungary to be an immigrant country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We stand by the position of the Hungarians and confirm what we did in the referendum. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-34	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[Interventions in opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-12-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, While politicians in almost every country in the world expressed their condolences last Thursday morning for attacking Syrian migrant young children in France, they were stabbed, while Home Affairs Ministers were working in Luxembourg on how to automate the distribution of migrants within Europe. I took part in this meeting myself, and I remembered the sentences of Hungarian politicians, which were said mainly in the area of the referendum, in the referendum where the Hungarian people had to answer to order the compulsory resettlement of non-Hungarian citizens into Hungary. 3.3 million people said no to that. Then the MSZP said that the whole mandatory quota is a bluff, and there is no such thing. The LMP said it was a political scam. There is no mandatory quota plan. István Újhelyi said that there would be no and no resettlement quota for refugees. He said Péter Niedermüller, former MEP from DK: "There is no obligation on forced resettlement, such a plan, which the Hungarian government is trying to sink into the minds of all of us, there is no such thing! They voted on it last week! Bertalan Tóth, then president of the MSZP: there is and will not be a mandatory quota. And there is still a list of politicians from almost all the parties on the left who have said that there is no plan for compulsory resettlement quotas. This was what they tried to tell the Hungarian people when, in a referendum, the Hungarian people refused compulsory resettlement quotas, and then last Thursday at the Justice and Home Affairs Council, the proposal was adopted. Two countries voted against, Hungary and Poland, four countries who also did not support this proposal: Lithuania, Slovakia, Malta and Bulgaria. So we were the ones who opposed it. This was not put forward in vain in the Justice and Home Affairs Council, since this issue was dealt with earlier by the European Council, where the Heads of State or Government are. There, decisions must be made by consensus. The European Council said that either the renewal of the Dublin system or any issue of asylum falls within the competence of the European Council, and that it must be decided by consensus. Then, last Thursday, it was brought to the Home Affairs Council because it was there that a qualified majority could decide: not with a 100% consensus, but with a 55% majority in terms of the number of states and a 65% majority in terms of the population of the states. In the last eight years, there have been countless quota plans that have failed. A voluntary quota plan, which also failed in the practice of the Member States, did not work either, which is why they sought a way of avoiding consensus, avoiding the full agreement of the Member States, and thus launching this legislative process, and thus bringing this proposal forward to Parliament, the Home Affairs Council's proposal to the European Parliament. And let us not have any illusion: at this stage, this proposal will become even more pro-migrant, not more stringent. So what the European Left, and especially the Hungarian Left, denied is that there is no mandatory quota plan, this has now happened. Today, even in Hungary and Hungary, of course, it will be later, now in Hungary and in Europe the Member States decide who lives in that country and who doesn't. The states in question have the power to decide who will be allowed into their own country. If this proposal is implemented, it is not the Member States who decide on Europe's population, but the smugglers, who are brought to the borders of the European Union by smugglers, who must be subject to an accelerated procedure compared to the previous one. There are many benefits, in many cases this procedure can already be carried out in the European Union, which means that everyone will be free to go from there, and that, once this fast and lots of discount procedures have been carried out, they will be automatically given the country in which they can live their lives. For a man who wants to leave Africa or Asia, this is an invitation letter, an automatic. And how has this been decided, honourable Members? A 12-hour debate e-mailed out a proposal, 10 minutes later it was distributed on paper, and 20 minutes later it was voted on. They're gonna test all our procedures for us. All you do is report Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the European Parliament, and in Brussels, this is how the decision is taken, 20 minutes after the proposal is sent. I guess if something's not a rule of law, well, this procedure isn't a rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Szabolcs Szabó: Legislative Committee!]]
u2023-06-12-36	János Halász, representative of Fidesz, also asked for the floor before the agenda. I'll give you that. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The war has been going on in Ukraine for 16 months now, the fronts have been stiffened, and the fights are intensifying. We must be prepared to live for a long time in a war threat, as well as us Hungarians. At the same time, in addition to the war, we still have another threat, illegal migration. Unfortunately, last year again, the number of migrants attempting to enter Hungary illegally increased to a worrying extent. There are a lot of people arriving on the Balkan route, and there is also an increase in the activity of smuggling networks. The numbers are worrying. In 2022, the number of illegal cross-border attempts doubled compared to the previous year. While almost 130,000 border offenders were caught by the Hungarian authorities in 2021, they had to take action in more than 260,000 cases last year. In addition, illegal migrants are increasingly aggressive, and more and more alarming phenomena can be seen at the Hungarian border as well. In 2022, 485 attacks on border defenders or border protection equipment were committed by migrants. In 51 cases volt weapons for illegal migrants, 104 shots were heard on the Serbian side of the border and 24 serial shots were heard by border guards. We can see that our police and border hunters continue to be subjected to a test of manhood. Thank you for your sacrifice, your service. Dear House, However, outside the southern border section, we have to fight illegal migration again and again in Brussels. Unfortunately, the absurd coalition, consisting of smugglers, paid rights defenders and part of the EU's leaders, continues to work. Last week, at the meeting of the EU Internal Affairs Council in Brussels, a draft legislation was adopted setting out how immigrants should be distributed among the Member States of the Union. In English, again, this is the Tillránskvota, which has been tried several times before to push through the Member States. So far, only one voluntary quota has been introduced, but this has not been successful. That is why Brussels now wants to forcefully distribute migrants. Once again, Brussels would create a situation where Member States would have no say in who they want to live with and with whom they do not live in their own territory. [[14.40]] This is unacceptable! This is yet another step that proves that Brussels is completely abusing its power. However, we are not going to let Brussels forcefully turn Hungary into an immigrant country. The Hungarians have repeatedly indicated that they do not request migration and reject compulsory introductions. We also expressed our opinion clearly in the referendum in 2016: 98 percent of Hungarians said no to mandatory quotas. We respect the opinion of the Hungarian people and therefore continue to reject the introduction of a compulsory quota. Dear House, On the other hand, if it were up to the left, we would be an immigrant country by now, because they enthusiastically support all ideas relating to the compulsory distribution of migrants. The left doesn't care that the Hungarians said no to the mandatory quotas. They continue to be pro-Migration in exchange for rolling dollars. In the European Parliament, all representatives of the Hungarian left supported the proposal for compulsory distribution of migrants. Attila Ara-Kovács, Katalin Cseh, Klára Dobrev, Anna Donáth, Márton Gyöngyösi, Csaba Molnár, Sándor Rónai and István Újhelyi have also said yes to the compulsory migrant quota. [[Eszter Vitalos: Nice team!]] This latest scandalous proposal shows that Brussels still does not want to stop migration, but would rather manage it, let the masses flowing into Europe and try to get them to all the Member States of the Union. This is unacceptable to Hungarians. We will not let Brussels turn Hungary into an immigrant country. Fidesz represents the interests of the Hungarian people. We will not allow the compulsory resettlement quotas for migrants to be imposed on us. The government can count on the Fidesz fraction in this fight, with the full strength of our faction, to support the government's fight against illegal migration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-38	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2023-06-12-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that we have to give serious criticism to the decision-makers in Brussels. Unfortunately, once again, we feel that Brussels policy is now showing its worst face in many cases. The biggest problem, I think, is the democratic attitude. They make decisions very quickly on matters of racial severity affecting Europe as a whole and everyone's future by not asking the opinion of Europeans at all, because if they did, they would turn out to be on a very, very bad path. I don't know what kind of situation the term "the democratic deficit" was born in, but it's being maxed out. We have two pressing cases to say. Firstly, the consequences of last year's economic decisions and decisions in Brussels are extremely serious. The European economy has slowed down the most. Industrial production is falling in 18 countries and greenfield investments have decreased by 15 percent. Meanwhile, China can expect economic growth of around 5 percent, and American expansion will be greater than European growth, and if that is not enough, the horror of European inflation will also cast a shadow on the European economic outlook, and there will be no family in Europe that does not feel the effects of this. It shouldn't have been like this. And how do you intend to change that? They don't want me at all, because instead of changing directions, they're thinking about an 11th sanction package. The other reason is eight years ago! It's about the subject we're talking about. You know very well in this House how many times we have talked about migration. Many may have been bored, but the fact is that the question is not that they are tired of how many times we have talked about it, but the question is, what would happen if we changed our policy and opened the borders of the country. So, the question is, what can we do about a policy we think is wrong? The peaking point of the debates was the issue of resettlement quotas. This is not something that we can emphasize enough in a referendum that was rejected by a 98 percent majority. We were the only country in Europe where citizens were asked what they thought about this. And what does Brussels do? To tell you the truth, they waited a little while, but after a few years, these quotas were accepted, yet these resettlement quotas were cheated. This has happened last week, and a legal solution has been chosen to avoid the need for unanimity, it was adopted by a majority vote, so the voices of the protesting Hungary and Poland could be ignored. Indeed, we remember how opposition representatives talked about a fake problem and how they tried to deny the whole quota issue. But one thing we have forgotten to mention here in recent minutes: after denying the existence of these quotas, when they had to give their name to a resolution, they supported it very much, so the picture is complete. As far as the proposal is concerned, a quota system has now been adopted in which, if someone does not want to participate, they will have to pay a very serious penalty. This could be an amount of HUF 8 million per unincorporated immigrant. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that there is a quota in this adopted proposal, but the European Commission has already indicated that it sees it as open-ended, so it will actually be much larger in the future. There is another serious circumstance that makes the current one more serious than any of the previous drafts. This draft provides for mandatory capacity for immigration procedures for each Member State. On this basis, not elsewhere than in Hungary, the largest asylum capacity would be required, almost 30% of the total capacity should be established in Hungary; not in Italy, not in Greece, but in Hungary. So, we are looking at whether it is war or migration, the steam cylinder in Brussels is on the move, and it does not really care what the Hungarians think about it. They don't care that we don't want an immigrant country, we don't want to send guns, we don't want a war, and we want to protect our children. This is another reason why we want to achieve a clear change of direction in Brussels policy in the election next year from afar and for everyone. We are full members, and we will exercise our rights, we will make our voices heard, everyone can be sure of that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-40	Dear Parliament, Varga Simeon will now speak before the Bulgarian national minority agenda in a five-minute period. I'll give the floor to the speaker. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-41	[[???Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви поздравя като застъпник на българското малцинство в унгарския парламент.???]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, as the Bulgarian national minority advocate, to welcome you and briefly remember that on 24 May, Bulgaria and the Bulgarian community in Hungary have been officially celebrating the day of St Cyril and Saint Methodius, Slavic writtenness, faith and culture for 172 years. Since 1985, we have been honoring and remembering the monument set up in Zalavar for 38 years, where these two saints can be proven to have proclaimed Christianity on the basis of historical sources. Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius, the two Byzantine Christian missionaries, the IX. At the beginning of the century, they contributed to the development of Slavic language, culture and literature by accepting the Slavic language liturgy and creating the glagolita alphabet. May 24th of each year is the Memorial Day of these two great apostles, Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius, and also the celebration of Slavic writing, faith and culture. Therefore, it is no coincidence that the church of the Bulgarians in Hungary bears the names of these two saints. To this day, Christendom, Christian values are an important link between the peoples of Europe, even when serious counter-forces are working their backs. If we view our Christian faith, our religious rituals as branches of trees extending to heaven, then our language, our traditions, our history is our roots in the earth. Active and modern language education and cultural education in ethnic education institutions is one of the best tools to preserve our language and traditions. Over the last decade, there has been a welcome increase in the number of children raised and educated in ethnic education institutions, thanks to the ever-increasing budget support, investments and development of educational institutions, and the take-up of educational institutions provided and made possible for national authorities. [[14.50]] We can say that state support for nationalities in Europe is unique in both intellectual and material terms. This year's 30-year-old LXXVII of 1993 on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. Law. The past period proved that a good decision was made when the Hungarian Parliament passed this law. Since 2014, since the nationalities have been represented in the Hungarian Parliament, the government of Hungary has increased six times the national government's budget support. According to the Fundamental Law, Hungary considers domestic nationalities as an important factor, about codifying the legacy of St. Stephen, who found it this way in his warnings to his son, Prince Szent Imre - the monolingual and mononormal country is weak and fallible. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Like my previous speech during the budget debate in 2023, allow me to thank the Government of Hungary, the Secretary-General of State and colleagues of the Prime Minister's Office responsible for ecclesiastical and ethnic relations, Parliament for its exemplary support to preserve the national identity of Hungarian nationalities, which in recent years has been manifested both through the continuous increase in budget support and through the support of ethnic education and culture at several levels. Ensuring the necessary resources for the balanced and stable functioning of national authorities and their institutions contributes to the preservation of nationalities in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-12-42	On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker, For 172 years, Bulgaria and the Hungarian Bulgarian community have celebrated the day of Slavic writing, faith and culture. Slavic writing, translation of the Holy Scriptures into Slavic language, and the Slavic possibility of rituals are thanks to two Greek brothers, Cyril and Metod. 1140 years ago, after Christ, in 873, they began their operations in Great Moravia. The Scriptures, liturgia, could not be recorded with Greek and Latin scripts in the Old Slavic language, which is why the glagolite alphabet was formed and established, which, according to many, was also the basis for Cyrillic writing. The Slavic liturgy preceded the efforts of the Reformation by centuries or thousands of years, or the decision of the Second Vatican Council of the Catholic Church. In addition to Greek and Latin, Slavic language appeared in liturgy. CHAPTER XVI Pope Benedict commented on the work of the two Greek brothers Cyril and Methodius:. They were convinced that the individual peoples could not fully claim the teaching of revelation until they had heard it in their own language and read it with the letters of their own alphabet. Cyril and Methodius are a classic example of what we call inculturation today, meaning that all peoples must combine their own culture with the revealed message and express it in their own language. Dear Parliament, This is still a valid effort. The language, traditions and cultural characteristics of each people must be preserved and preserved. All actions, efforts, or direct melding, for example through multiculturalism, comfort, neglect and negligence, must be rejected. This is why it is important for us here in the Carpathian Basin to have good relations with neighbouring countries, to have a good relationship, to support Hungarians living in their countries, and that is why we must give a prominent role and opportunity to the 13 indigenous ethnicities in Hungary. Dear Speaker, Thank you for this work, in this effort, with Members of Parliament and spokespersons, with their national and local leaders, indeed, as you have said, in the European Union we can provide a unique opportunity for nationalities. We provide the opportunity to preserve the language of nationality, to pass on the faith of nationalities, to practice the culture of our nationalities and to organise education education for our nationalities. I would also like to thank the advocates, Mr Speaker, and also the Member, that, in times of difficulty like these, we can understand and further support the development of schools, institutions or cultural premises. Not only can we develop in this way, but we can sustain what we have created in recent years, to carry on the results that have been due to the past decade. This year and next year, all these things can be preserved, carried forward, only in peace and peace. Therefore, the greatest hope is, and it is important for the future of all, that peace between the two largest Slavic peoples be established, return to the aspirations of Saint Cyril and St Methodius, in Christendom, in culture and in part in the language and in writing, to unity. Thank you very much for your speech. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-12-44	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2023-06-12-45	Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, DK; Andrea Hegedűs, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Judit Ráczné Földi, DK; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; János Bencze, Jobbik. Antal Csárdi, LMP; Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Előd Novák, Mi Hazank; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP; Endre Tóth, Momentum; Zoltán Komáromi, DK; András Aradszki, KDNP; Katalin Csöbör, Fidesz. Róbert Dudás, Jobbik, Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Thursday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2023-06-12-46	Dear Parliament, Now it is time for the mandate certificate and its representatives to take an oath. I would like to inform the House that because of the death of István Bajkai, Dr. Orsolya Ferencz has been nominated from the joint national list of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association and the Christian Democratic People's Party. Before the meeting, the Audit Committee examined the regularity of Dr. Orsolya Ferencz's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on the Exemptions, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2.
u2023-06-12-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the joint party list of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association and the Christian Democratic People's Party nominating organisation, a mandate was vacant with the death of Member István Bajkai. This vacant mandate has been appointed by the National Election Committee 57/2023. It was issued to Orsolya Ferencz on the 6th day of June 2023. Three days later, this decision became legally binding and even on 9 June the mandate letter was delivered. Dr. Orsolya Ferencz submitted the necessary certificates for the meeting of the Committee on immunity today and also stated that there was no conflict of interest. The Committee on Patents then unanimously proposes to the Parliament that the mandate of Mrs Orsolya Ferencz be verified. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[15.00]]
u2023-06-12-48	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted, and the mandate will be confirmed by the Parliament without debate. Now, please check that your card has been placed in the voting machine, because there will be a vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to justify the mandate of Dr. Orsolya Ferencz. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the mandate of Orsolya Ferencz was confirmed by 164 votes in favour, no votes against, with one abstention. [[Applause.]] Dear House, Now, the solemn oath and the signature of the oaths. I would ask Mrs Orsolya Ferencz to come to the centre of the Chamber and take her oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath and the people in the Chamber to stand up. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Orsolya Ferencz steps into the center of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2023-06-12-49	I, Dr. Orsolya Ferencz, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause.]]
u2023-06-12-50	Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr Vinnai Győző to prepare the oath papers for signature, and Dr. Orsolya Ferencz to present them with his signature. [[It's happening. Dr. Győző Vinnai, who signed the oath document, gives a copy to Dr. Orsolya Ferencz, who was first congratulated by Máté Kocsis, then by Dr. Judit Varga, Dr. István Simicskó, Dr. Brenner Koloman, Ferenc Varga, Dr. István Apáti, Dr. Zita Gurmai, Antal Csárdi, Imre András Jámbor and Imre Ritter.]] I now call upon the notaries Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs that the House Rules of Decision 10/A. Pursuant to Section 7 of the Act, the validity of the oath of Mrs Orsolya Ferencz shall be verified. [[The First of Novak, will not Gyurcsány...? Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Ferenc Varga is there. Noise.]] The validity of the instrument of oath of Mrs Orsolya Ferencz shall be verified in accordance with Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure. (Előd Novak: Gyurcsány will not...? Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Ferenc Varga is there. Noise) Something wrong, Congressman? [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. Noise.]] Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, I urge you not to initiate a private meeting in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, I declare that the notaries have found the oath of Congresswoman Orsolya Ferencz to be in order. [[Applause.]] I wish Congresswoman, on behalf of myself and Parliament, effective work and good luck. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Kristóf Tompos, Member of Parliament, has notified the President of the Parliament of his immunity. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. Dear House, I declare that at today's meeting of the Justice Committee the Act on Parliament is 61. § 4 para. 6/2022-2026 It adopted a general resolution which is available to all of them on the website. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the substance of the resolution.
u2023-06-12-51	On the basis of the justification given in its resolution, the Committee took the view that the house rules were in line with the conduct of the meeting, which provided an opportunity to present an interpellation and question jointly submitted by an independent Member of a political group, either in the place and time provided to the political group, or in the place and time reserved for the independent Members, according to the order of opposition set out in the relevant House Committee resolution. If the joint interpellation is submitted, the group leader is the resolution house rule 122. In its announcement pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Group, it shall be regarded as a declaration that the interpellation or question will be presented by a member of the Group. If the question of interpellation is not raised because the representative entitled to speak as above is not present at the time of the interpellation, or has withdrawn from the question of interpellation, the question shall be deemed to be withdrawn.
u2023-06-12-52	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the resolution should be applied at our meeting starting today. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on a time-frame discussion of proposals. The resolution house rule is 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the T/4181 on Hungary's central budget for 2024. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals within a 30-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2023-06-12-53	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed 30-hour timeframe is as follows: 611 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 289 minutes for the KDNP Group; 172 minutes for the DK Group; 136 minutes for the Momentum Group; 136 minutes for the MSZP Group; 121 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 107 minutes for the Group of Hungary; 107 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 100 minutes for the LMP Group; 21 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. Opportunity of the representatives of the European Parliament in Hungary to speak in the general debate in the House Rule 37. Article 2 (2) (h): if you have applied to speak through the leader of the group, the time frame for the group; if you have applied directly, in addition to the 30-hour time frame, it is possible for an independent representative within a 7-minute time frame each. The House Rules 37 shall address the representative or representative of the nationalities of Hungary, as well as the representatives and advocates of the other nationalities. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 60 minutes, which is not included in the time frame.
u2023-06-12-54	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. So I ask this House, and you agree that T/4181. We will discuss this in a 30-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal by 122 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions, in a 30-hour timeframe. Dear Parliament, The motion put forward by the President initiates the T/4254 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2024. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a time frame of 4 hours and 40 minutes. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to explain this.
u2023-06-12-55	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed 4 hours and 40 minutes is as follows: 95 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 45 minutes for the KDNP Group; 27 minutes for the DK Group; 21 minutes for the Momentum Group; 21 minutes for the MSZP Group; 19 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 17 minutes for the Group of Hungary; 17 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 15 minutes for the LMP Group; 3 minutes for independent Members. [[15.10]] The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers. The representative of the ethnic minority invited by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities to speak out in the House Rule 37. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 20 minutes, which does not include the time frame.
u2023-06-12-56	Dear Parliament, It is now time for a decision to be taken again. I ask this House, you agree that T/4254. 4 hours and 40 minutes. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House with 123 votes in favour, 43 votes against and no abstentions [[Score shown on the table: 123 yes, 48 no, 0 stay]] adopted the proposal for a time-frame negotiation. Dear Parliament, The motion put forward by the President initiates T/4243 on the contribution of airlines and on the amendment of certain tax laws. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a time frame of 4 hours and 40 minutes. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2023-06-12-57	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed 4 hours and 40 minutes is as follows: 95 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 45 minutes for the KDNP Group, 27 minutes for the DK Group, 21 minutes for the Momentum Group, 21 minutes for the MSZP Group, 19 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 17 minutes for the Group of Hungary, 17 minutes for the Dialogue Group, 15 minutes for the LMP Group and 3 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2023-06-12-58	Dear House, Now it's time to make a decision again. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he agrees that T/4243. 4 hours and 40 minutes. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House with 123 votes in favour, 43 votes against and no abstentions [[Score shown on the table: 123 yes, 48 no, 0 stay]] the proposal to negotiate the submission in a time frame has been adopted. Dear Parliament, I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament would decide on this without discussion, with a hand lift, but Ferenc Gyurcsány initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. In view of this, we decide to do so. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/389-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the President's decision was maintained by 128 votes to 43, with no abstentions. As stated above, the MSZP Group proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which was proposed in the House Rule 15. I also refused under § 4a, given that it is also not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision and the use of machine voting. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/393/1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the President's decision was maintained by the House by 128 votes in favour, 43 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority has accepted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament, invites the designated Economic Committee, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's activities related to electronic communications and a report on the postal market, B/2603 submitted on 2022. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Economic Committee to take a decision by 122 votes in favour, 42 against and 5 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament, invites the designated Committee of Culture, with the title B/2948 submitted to the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2022. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House asked the Committee on Culture to take its decision by 122 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to be invited by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office Parliamentary Report (B/3062) submitted on 2022. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 123 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to call on the designated Economic Committee and the B/3619, which was submitted by the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities in 2022. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 123 votes to 123, 48 votes to 48, without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he invites the designated Economic Committee to present the B/3804, which is the National Atomic Energy Office, National Assembly Report, 2022. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 123 votes to 123, 48 votes to 48, without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Before we proceed to the discussion of the interpellations, I would like to draw the attention of the Presidents of the Commission to the fact that, immediately after the decisions are taken, the Commission's Presidential Conference will begin in the 37th conference in the Tisza Kálmán Hall. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 15.18 15.22 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2023-06-12-59	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work shortly. Dear Parliament, It's 3:22 p.m., and we're moving on to interpellation negotiations. Andrea Hegedüs, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. Why? It's an address. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs has the floor.
u2023-06-12-60	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The inflation you caused in Orbán is felt all over the country. All Hungarian citizens are hit by price increases indiscriminately, they face the same problems everywhere from the capital to the villages: prices are rising every day in the shops, the seven-fold increase in fees eats up most of the salaries, the rent price is slowly priceless. It's no different in Miskolc. I remember the old days when we used to go out to the wheat square market in the morning, buy lunches, and cook everything out of them. It's impossible for many today. Enough to go to the market to see if a family could eat lunch with the same money. People get nervous when they shop, how much they have to give up. Of course, they're trying to survive as much as they can, because they're not getting any help from you. Some people buy less or give up certain foods, replace the brands they have already loved with cheaper ones. Others go to neighbouring countries, border settlements for milk, meat, vegetables. Secretary of State, you know, I think that a kilo of paprika in Slovakia is 700 HUF cheaper, and the price of a pack of spaghetti is only a third of the Hungarian price. Clearly, you are solely responsible for the situation. A 73 per cent [[Sic!]] food inflation is completely unique in Europe, this increase has been in Hungary for more than 70 years, during Mátyás Rákosi. Despite throwing war and sanctions, only Viktor Orbán's failed economic policy can be held responsible for the situation. With every measure they take, they'll only make things worse. They deliberately want to bring the Hungarians into poverty. Even a medium government would have been able to help its people in that time, but in the last 13 years, you have become so accustomed to theft and corruption that you are unable to do so. In contrast, the shadow government led by Dobrev Klára is working to reduce inflation in Orbán and not to increase prices, but to increase wages and pensions. Why can't you help me? Why don't you raise your pension enough to be inflation-resistant? Why don't you raise your salary so you don't have an unsolvable problem with shopping? Why has inflation in Orbán still not been substantially reduced? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2023-06-12-61	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-06-12-62	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The people around you can testify that I don't go back to the past. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] because I hate to talk about Hungary's sad times in this house, but, well, you remembered the old days, the Iron Factory Market or the Wheat Square. Then please remember together the 15-16,000 unemployed who were there at your time, remember that there was a Dimachine in Miskolc, remember that there was a 4th of December wire factory in Miskolc, remember that there was a metallurgy with a 200-year-old work culture that is no longer there. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: And what have they done for this 13 years?!]] In 2008-2009, the Orbán government, which you called first, pulled the country out of the crisis that was dealt with by the dollar-left. The country's 11 percent unemployment, which was 16 percent in North Hungary, in the region you know, has been reduced by the Orbán governments to less than 4 percent, and the registered number of jobseekers of around 700 thousand people has also been reduced to a third by the Orbán governments. In 2023, in addition to the dangers caused by war, we also have to deal with inflation. This inflation has been the result of the war, in addition to a drought that has not been seen for many decades, by the Brussels policy that has caused Hungary a very significant amount of damage. In addition, the measures taken so far to reduce inflation, government measures that you deny exist, results are visible, inflation has started to decline: after the 25,7 percent peak in January, inflation is 21.5 percent in May, resulting in a decrease of more than 4 percentage points and a decrease of 2.5 percentage points compared to April data. This means that the decline in consumer prices is dynamic and increasingly trendy. Combating inflation is primarily a central bank task. The government is also actively interfering, so far more than 20 measures have been decided to curb prices and protect the economy. The measures put in place work. I would like to draw your attention to the last two important consumer protection steps: in order to further reduce food prices and increase competition in retail trade, the government has imposed mandatory action on retail shops; and by adopting the competition proposal of the President of the Economic Competition Authority, it has accepted the introduction of an online price monitoring database. In order to further reduce inflation, we introduced from June the mandatory price-breaking action, which they are obliged to use in retail shops with turnover exceeding HUF 1 billion. The trader shall apply a reduction of not less than 10 per cent in respect of at least one product per product category during the sale period compared to the lowest gross retail price he has used in the last 30 days. The government's goal is to make one digit by the end of the year [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Break down inflation, protect families (The President bell rings) , pensioners, jobs and full employment. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Oh, Mr. Secretary, you don't mean that either.]] Thank you for your patience. [[15.30]]
u2023-06-12-63	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-06-12-64	No, I can't accept it. Dear Secretary of State, He mentioned the city administration, the current one. Well, for nine years, Miskolc had a fidesz city run, yet the conditions you mentioned have not improved! And you can't seriously think that these measures will suddenly work, which you have said. You, in recent months, or you could say years, would have had plenty of opportunity to prove this, and you didn't. The truth is that we live badly because of Viktor Orbán. And then some highlighted data. Miskolc, of course, doesn't forget, doesn't forget the loss of revenue he suffered from the withdrawal of the car tax, the suspension of the collection of the tourist tax, the loss of parking revenue. The city's solidarity contribution has increased from HUF 1.3 billion to HUF 3.6 billion. The solidarity contribution system must be radically transformed and transparent. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The solution is Klára Dobrev's shadow government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-12-65	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Miklós Hajnal, a representative of Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Construction and Transport:. When is progress to be made in the traffic chaos on Budakes? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-66	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Dear Minister, Before the 2022 elections, the news was published in dozens of videos and newspaper articles that the government would finally improve traffic chaos on Budakeszi Road, and that new bus lanes would be developed as part of the renovation. The announced plans were very promising; I did not say for nothing before last year's elections that this was one of the government initiatives that I could support. The driving time of public transport could be significantly reduced, and if the bus actually was a faster alternative, the car load of the Buda roads might finally be reduced. The Budapest Development Centre, which has been terminated since then, allegedly worked for months to prepare the plans. There was an online questionnaire, the results of which were then not published, and the website of which has since been removed without a trace. There was press photography, there was a campaign video, and there was, of course, a public procurement procedure, and a government decision was also taken on development. Since the elections, however, there has been a great silence around the project. We have looked at this government decision: according to the government decision, study plans, licensing and export plans should have been completed by 31 August 2022 and construction permits should have been obtained so far. I would like to point out that this deadline has expired more than eight months ago, now more than nine months ago. The government has not published any official information on the project since the campaign, no one knows how the investment stands, that they are planning to keep their campaign promise at all. We hope that this investment will not be pulled out by a pen stroke, like the renovation of the City Major, because we are talking about the daily commute of thousands of people and, by the way, the relief of all Buda. Congressman Tamás Menczer, your representative recently dropped a shady half sentence on his Facebook page that plans are still being prepared, but you may not really think that this is the right communication for a state aid development that has been going on for years. I ask you and perhaps János Lázár, who is responsible for the project, on behalf of the government, to continue with the enthusiasm expressed in the election campaign, to make public at last how Budakeszi's road development stands. And then some very specific questions for the Minister. When will the plans be ready? When will the necessary permits be obtained? When does the construction start? When will it be ready? And finally, why can't we find publicly available information about them anywhere? Why do I have to ask you this as a special question as a Member of Parliament? Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Momentum.]]
u2023-06-12-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár responds to the interpellation. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2023-06-12-68	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House of Representatives, Dear fellow Member, Thank you for asking. Although my fellow Member cannot be accused of lack of information, or of the fact that the government would not provide information, since on 23 January the staff of the Ministry were at your disposal in my office, where all the questions that you have raised have been clarified, the projects that are important to you and investments in Budapest have been discussed in detail and, as they did then, they are at your disposal at any time. So there is no secret, either from the pro-government or from the opposition. On the other hand, I am pleased with your speech, because it is now very fashionable that my fellow opposition Members are lobbying for investments or fighting for investments, as they call it: they are fighting, and when the investment begins, they are organizing civil society groups to prevent them, because it would not be right for the government to succeed. For example, the neighbouring, XI. in the district of the southern roundabout. So I hope that this question also refers to the fact that, if the permits are granted, Mr President will also support the increase in the legal force of the permits and will not challenge them in court. After all, it is a very important investment that has a significant impact on the quality of life and quality of life of those from Budapest to Budapest, for which the government made a clear decision on 4 November 2020 regarding Budakeszi, Fő utca, Budakeszi, Budaörsi út, Budakeszi bus stop, P+R parking lot, the renovation, reconstruction and bus lane of Budakeszi út in Budapest. I would like to note here that Tamás Menczer has played a crucial role in this, that this government resolution has been adopted and has been monitoring this ever since. According to the Government's decision, on 29 May 2021 the government signed with the UVATERV design company. The project was divided into four parts by my wallet and its predecessors: the inner part of Budakes, bus lanes; the inner part of Budapest, bus lanes; Budakeszi's new bus stop, bus terminal and P+R parking lot; and Budakeszin's road between Pátyi út, Budaörsi road and Domb street consists of these four parts at the moment. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, by September 2022, the designer has delivered the plans. However, the mandate applies not only to the delivery of the plans, but also to the acquisition of the necessary licences. When preparing an investment, we are talking not only about plans, but also about contributions and the preparation of additional plans related to management, operation and operation. To do this, we need water rights permits from, for example, the Metropolitan Waterworks, the Metropolitan Channels, who have not yet granted the necessary permits. I would also like to inform the Honourable Parliament that on 1 June 2023 the Government Office issued the building permit in respect of the third stage; in respect of the fourth stage, both of these parts of the investment involving Budakeszi are in the process of issuing the permit. At the first two paces, additional plans need to be completed and the necessary co-governments or operators, operators, consenting and connecting statements are required. Until these are clarified and compatible with the local construction regulations, we can't get a permanent construction permit. Therefore, the designer has completed the design of the export plans and is constantly ensuring that licences and export licences are obtained. If this takes place as soon as possible in the third or fourth quarter of 2023, the expropriation plan may be completed in 2024 and, after the expropriation plan is in place, the Parliament may decide in 2024 to provide funds for this in its budget of 25. We are talking about a 20 billion-dollar investment, to which we will ask not only for your support, but also for Tamás Menczer's support, now and in the future, for the sake of Budakeszi, Budapest and the agglomeration. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-69	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-70	Unfortunately, I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much for the information that the Minister has provided. I think it's a very late date, it's a very late project, and compared to how much momentum they started this campaign and before the elections, this story has now become a braked foam. I am glad that it has not yet been added to the list of projects drawn, stopped or suspended; I hope it will not. I am sure that all such authorisation procedures by the capital and the Metropolitan Waterworks do not mean to hinder this project, because I hope that we all have a common interest in the development of Budapest, the development of Budapest and the agglomeration. However, this must not become a debate in which you may point back, referring to permits. After all, we are also talking about a matter of certain plumbings under the Budakeszi road. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] which he would have renovated long ago. [[The president's ringing again.]] the Metropolitan Waterworks, if there were enough resources available, which was taken by this government, among other things...
u2023-06-12-71	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2023-06-12-72	...with a tax increase, too. So I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Momentum.]] [[15.40]]
u2023-06-12-73	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister:. The pensioners are lending to the government again! How long do pensioners have to wait for their pensions not to be maximized by inflation? It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor.
u2023-06-12-74	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, In a letter sent to pensioners in February, Viktor Orbán wrote that one of the government's great goals is to ensure the decent lives of pensioners. Compared to this, you only raised pensions by 15 percent in January, even though it was already known that the increase could reach up to 20 percent. Food prices have increased even more by 40-45 percent. Secretary of State, you have been playing against inflation for years, and on the basis of this, you are giving less pension increases at the beginning of the year. Then, for almost a year, funds withheld from pensioners are used free of charge. So the elderly lend money to the Fidesz government. Well, even in Fidesz, you're gonna need thick skin. But let's look at the specific numbers. Last year, a total increase of 14 percent was made, while pensioner inflation was 15.2 percent. This means that the Fidesz government reduced pensioners by approximately HUF 60 billion. And you want to do the same thing this year. Even though pensioners were asked to raise during the year in April, they were answered that the data of the HCSO did not support this claim. Then the MSZP also asked whether there would be a pension increase in the summer, on which Mr Secretary of State wrote: the government will take the necessary steps in time in the light of actual and expected macroeconomic developments and data. In this connection, I ask you: is it possible that the government does not see that we have the highest inflation rate in the EU and that the value of pensions is constantly falling, or do they not want to see this in order to use the money withheld from pensioners for free? And ever since then, they've been deceiving me, promising me that if it becomes necessary, there will be a pension correction again this year. But when and how much, they keep their mouths shut. The MSZP therefore repeatedly asks the government to raise pensions by 5 percent as soon as possible, even from next month, since the January pension increase, but even 13 months' benefits, has long since been eaten by inflation. Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you have an acquaintance who's retired and has a hard time living, I'm sure you do, but if you do, please think about this while you answer the following questions: why are you taking your money away from pensioners? Why use the money of the elderly for free? Why do pensioners lend loans to the government? And finally, how long do pensioners have to wait for their pensions not to be maximized by inflation? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-06-12-75	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2023-06-12-76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He started his interpellation, which, by the way, is very extensive, and I was very excited about what part of four pages he was going to tell me, because I knew it wouldn't fit in the three minutes, but he found something in it that he could tell me. Did you like it the most when you knew who you were quoting? Myself. He quoted Andras Tallai. And that's what I can tell you right now, to allow me to quote this mortal man. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Classics only!]] who says that there will be an additional pension increase if macroeconomic developments are analysed by the government, will be examined. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Yes, I told you that too.]] and if you consider that inflation is higher than the 15 per cent pension increase, there will be an additional pension increase. The law requires this obligation to the government by November at the latest, but the government, as it has done in the past year, can do so before. So there will be an additional pension increase if it is supported by macroeconomic data. However, I would like to say to you that you are aware that, on the basis of the monthly inflation figures in May, KSH has found that inflation growth has stopped, what is more, it has decreased, and prices have fallen by 0.4 percent in comparison to the month-months. It should be acknowledged that you acknowledge that inflation was 14 percent by 2022, and the government gave it to the pensioners. And this year, he started by 15 percent. Do you know when they gave me a 15 percent pension increase? If the governance of the two cycles is combined, all pension increases will reach about 15 percent of the pension increase. So, overall, I can tell you that the government does not lend loans to pensioners, the government values pensioners, the government respects the elderly people who have worked for this country for decades. And in 2010, he promised by agreement that he would preserve the value of pensions. He's done this every year. I have a retired acquaintance, I am talking to others; of course, no one is fully satisfied, but they thank me for the government's promise to them. And so it will be in 2023, and what's more, the budget for the year 24 contains exactly this. We value pensioners, and what they deserve is what they'll get from this government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-77	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-78	Of course, I can't accept the answer, because the exact sentences I quoted, we could hear it again. So that means you confirmed what you said earlier. It's not my problem, it's my problem with why they're planning the bottom line. I made it very clear that this is only HUF 60 billion this year. And the other thing is, the moon shows how much inflation is. So I think that's what everyone sees. And he's comparing us, the 13-year-old government. Well, let's not make jokes. Well, where was inflation at that time? ! So I don't think what we're comparing is the last thing. Besides, the problem is that they refuse to answer our questions safely. In December, we asked what this 15 percent pension increase would be enough for with 25.2% inflation. That's basically bullshit. We asked him why the government wouldn't help half a million pensioners who couldn't afford a hundred thousand forints. They said that pensions are not social benefits, but otherwise they can ask for a fair increase in pensions. We asked him why they'd rule him out... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I can keep asking questions, and all they do is bullshit and bullshit and bullshit...
u2023-06-12-79	Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-12-80	...just like you are now. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-12-81	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. How can the wages of Hungarians be achieved in an international comparison? It's an address. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2023-06-12-82	[[No sound.]] Mr President, Dear House, Undoubtedly, the nominal wage increase in recent years still does not reach... [[Intercoms, among them: You can't hear it! Microphone!]]
u2023-06-12-83	You don't have a voice, Congressman. You can't hear me. I need some help. [[Bence Rétvári: The counter is going. Dániel Z. Carpathian: The microphone is on me, Mr. President. Z. Carpathian is placed in front of Daniel with a portable microphone.]] I'd like the clock back on, please. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-84	Mr President, Dear House, As I have said, the nominal wage increases over the past few years are still below the increase in the region's wages and should not be compared to the Western European average or even to the Austrian wage level. We have been hearing these irritating speeches about opening a pastry shop in Vienna for a long time, and in recent years we have been talking about catching up with Austria by 2030. In terms of catching up, it is worth looking at wage conditions, and we see that distance has either increased for some countries or has decreased slightly. And if we convert the wages of Hungarians into euro, and the trader in the shops buys the goods we buy for euros very often, the situation is even more disappointing. It can therefore be seen that, in addition to minimum wage proximity or stagnation, brutal food inflation and overall inflation are strangling Hungarian families. I am glad that Mr Secretary of State has corrected this, because there has been an absurd statement here in Parliament today that things are becoming cheaper because inflation is increasing to a lower degree. [[15.50]] Let me be clear: the acceleration of the increase may slow down here, but the increase will still be brutal. The rise in prices in Hungary is also recordable at European level. This is why the question arises that, in order to settle the wages of Hungarians, and indirectly to manage their living in the country of origin, the government opened up in the fiscal period in order not only to require the Hungarian small business operator to increase wages gradually, let us say in a way that goes beyond inflation, but also to put together a wage development fund. Let's include a large part of the extra revenue generated by this crisis and let the Hungarian small entrepreneur, medium-sized entrepreneur, come here directly if he wants to develop wages. There have been similar attempts during the Covid, closure and crisis period, we can see that Europe's countries competed in this, and in this competition Hungary unfortunately, if not around the very last places, but somewhere the runners were still in the category. There would be a chance that if there was an extra income that the government did not expect, it would typically come in because of the high VAT revenue due to high prices, and hundreds of billions of dollars in scale, they would be willing to group all this into a wage development fund so that the wage level of Hungarians could actually increase, so that the rate of forced emigration could slow down. If all of this happens, so if more people can cope in their homeland, perhaps the government will not think with such intensity of organized migrant imports. All in all, my question is: is there openness in the government to create a wage development fund that helps the Hungarian entrepreneur, helps those who carry the national economy on their backs, so that they can bring wages to a substantial level, if not to the Western European average, but at least to the European average? I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-06-12-85	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-06-12-86	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the war and the wrong sanctions, the government, in cooperation with the social partners, has made considerable efforts to encourage employment and raise wages. The rapid rise in wages in recent years has increased labour supply and encouraged the return of those working abroad. Today, more people live on labour income in Hungary than before the 2010 government change, and those who work earn significantly more than ever since the change of regime. According to Eurostat data, we are ahead of the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia, from 2010 to 2022, with an increase in earnings in Hungary. In 22 euros, the average gross earnings recorded in Hungary also precede Bulgaria, Croatia, Poland, Romania and Slovakia among the Central European countries. Real income has been increasing significantly for years, and according to data from 22 onwards, real earnings have only increased in Hungary across the European Union, while real wages have decreased in other countries. The government's efforts to curb inflation are successful, inflation is decreasing, and the process has increased noticeably. Since 2010, the government has been constantly reducing labour taxes, which have significantly decreased in recent years. It also helps families with children through tax incentives. From 2020 onwards, mothers with four or more children do not have to pay personal income tax; we introduced in 22 the personal income tax exemption for workers under 25 up to the average wage level. From January 23, mothers under the age of 30 are also exempted from the obligation to stay. This year's registered energy prices remain for the average consumption, so on average a Hungarian family saves some HUF 181 thousand per month through refurbished prices, which relieves inflationary pressures on families. The minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as the Member knows, are laid down by the negotiation and agreement of the social partners, and the government announces this, and the whole tripartite system essentially determines what performance behind wage increases can cope with. From 2010 to 23, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increased more than three times, the Hungarian minimum wage increase was the fourth largest in the European Union during the same period. The biggest reduction in the tax wedge in Hungary has been in the European Union since 2009, mainly due to the reduction of taxes and levies on employers. Before 2010, this was 53-54 percent, which decreased by 12 percent to 41 percent by 22 percent. The government intends to continue to establish a work-based society by increasing incomes, protecting jobs, supporting families and maintaining security at the same time. We want to build a work-based society instead of an aid-based society. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-12-87	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-88	Mr President, Dear House, We agree that there is no future for an aid-based society, but for a work-based society. But, Mr. Secretary, the fact is that a waiter at home earns HUF 302,000 according to KSH, an amount of HUF 827 thousand in England and HUF 776,000 in Germany. And the problem is, it's a huge gap. We do not expect these numbers to be balanced by tomorrow, but we would expect at least one slow, gradual, predictable approach to be achieved. A bus driver earns 479,000 forints on average at home, this is already a raised amount compared to previous years. But we also see that in England the amount is 856,000 forints, and in Germany it is 1.1 million forints. The fact is that distance stays at a level, stagnant, we are not approaching these countries, and the Czech wage level, the Slovenian wage level, is pulling past us, so it cannot go without a programme targeting normal wages, and because the figures show that we are not approaching, we certainly need more, so I cannot accept your answer. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-06-12-89	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, and I would like to inform you that we will take a decision on tomorrow's meeting in accordance with our agreed agenda. Dear Parliament, Szabadi István, representative of Mi Hazan, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. What do you want with the trauma in Zala County? It's an address. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor.
u2023-06-12-90	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, In my speech to the health reform package, I indicated in April that the trauma department of St. Rafael Hospital in Zala Vármegyei was planned to be transferred from the level of progressivity of I to level II, at the request of Minister, despite the lack of the minimum personal and physical conditions required for this. Based on the information we have received from our party, there are not enough specialists in the field of trauma, let alone level II, but also level I. Because of the enormous workload, doctors don't have a weekend off. And the Chief of Staff is retired. Attendings perform class work, on-call, standby, emergency tasks, and operate. Residents can't complete trauma training because they're assigned to the E.R., so they're slipping their exams. At this rate, the class will collapse, where in 2021 there was already a great wave of exits. Until August 2021, patients from the entire county of Zala and the guard of Vas County also arrived from the hospital's level II trauma tasks. Traumaology had 12 specialists and 2 residents who operated in addition to the class tasks and had to help in the emergency room, so they were sometimes assigned to three places at once. Because of the increasing workload, the emergency and trauma systems were initiated, but the hospital management was not a partner. In June 2021, nine doctors gave notice, which was communicated by the hospital's management to a low level of on-call fees. It wasn't about the money then, and it wasn't about the money, it was about the burden that you can't do in the long run. According to the hospital's announcement, in August 2021 traumaology was re-established at a higher level than before, but in fact they were forced to reclassify to progressivity level I. [[16.00]] In the meantime, in September 2021, eight doctors withdrew their resignation, but two of them could not return to the hospital. A chief doctor currently works at Dorottya Hospital in Kanizsai; the life of the former head of the department has been completely impossible, and since autumn last year he is no longer employed in a private clinic, because Minister wants to make an example of it. I ask for your reply, Mr Secretary of State, as regards the fact that you have been informed by the hospital's management of the superhuman burden in the trauma department; why, despite the lack of a major specialist, you will not allow the former head of department to take back the burden off your retired colleague; why you will not allow residents to undergo trauma training instead of emergency tasks. I look forward to your substantive reply, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-06-12-91	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-06-12-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is important for people everywhere in the country to feel that they can receive adequate health care. That is why it is important for us that while the left has introduced a visitation fee, while the left has closed hospitals, he has dismissed medical workers, but we have been trying to preserve all hospitals and have kept them for as long as we have been in government. They closed hospitals and even said in the 2022 election campaign that 45 percent of hospitals would be closed, but we consider all hospitals and all departments important; we maintain and develop them as long as possible. We now spend 2,800 billion forints on health care, people's health. When we started our government, it was much less, HUF 1198 billion, which now became 2,800. We also raised medical wages radically during the epidemic, and we also took out the gratuity money. At the beginning of our administration, a beginner doctor had a gross basic wage of HUF 129 500; now it is HUF 687 837. A doctor at the end of his career had 41 years of experience at the beginning of our administration with a gross basic wage of 262 345 HUF; now the same wage is not 262 thousand, but 2 380 057 HUF. We tried to appreciate the doctors. As far as the traumaology of St. Rafael Hospital in Zala Vármegyei is concerned, honourable Member, here all the necessary professional knowledge and minimum conditions for progress are available for the level of progression two. In connection with the provision of personal conditions, the National Health Insurance Fund Manager, the National Hospital Directorate-General and the Traumatic College have been consulted. For residents: the specialists and the professionals working in the department perform their duties well, and five residents are also in vocational training at the institution. Their vocational training plans have not been modified, so there is no slippage. Emergency training is a mandatory element of trauma training. Four of the five resident vocational training plans are still in the older system, six months of emergency training on the basis of an older vocational training plan, and one of them spends two months of emergency training, but in no way is their trauma training damaged in any way. In order to achieve the highest standard of care, the trauma department was set up together with the Traumatological Clinic of the University of Pécs, thus extending and modernising child trauma-related care, which has been done, and thus achieving an increase in hip replacement surgery with minimal invasive techniques, which, I believe, is in everyone's best interests. So, honourable Member, I am pleased that you are also interested in this issue, and I am pleased that you are dealing with it, but you can see that what can be done here to improve care locally is also being done here. It is not only that we maintain the operation of rural hospitals in relation to the hospital closing and dismantling activities of the left, but we also develop them, in order not to have to travel to another county or Budapest if someone needs help in any urgent case. So there are already good developments here, and this is expected in the future, and as I mentioned, the residents are progressing according to their training plan. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-93	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-94	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Your answer, Mr. Secretary of State, I cannot accept, given the fact that at all costs they want to establish a level II trauma-related care at St. Rafael Hospital in Zala County, when there are still not enough attendings to complete Level I. On the other hand, the currently operating trauma department of Kanizsai Dorottya Hospital at Level I could perform Level II tasks, and they also submitted a request for modification of their operating license, which was rejected. The reason for this is unknown, and many do not understand why this is happening. That's what they think is worrying. For this reason, however, there is currently no level II trauma site in Zala County, so the more serious patients are sent to Szombathely or Kaposvár or the University of Pécs. In order to ensure the safety of patient care, our Homeland Movement demands that the Kanizsai Dorottya Hospital be given permission to provide level II care as soon as possible, and it would also be a blessing to give these options to St. Rafael Hospital in Zala County. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-06-12-95	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: "When will we have biological mosquito control instead of spraying chemicals?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-12-96	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, While in Germany and Austria the proportion of biological methods in mosquito control is 80 percent and even in Slovakia is more than 50 percent, in Hungary it is still around 15 percent. With us, chemical extermination is still common, as if we were in the '70s of the last century. Moreover, this is done not only from the ground, but also from the air, although mosquito control in the European Union has only been carried out with a special authority authorisation since 2020. However, in our case, as we know, the exceptional procedure is the ordinary procedure. Yet, the scientific position is clear: neurotoxins used for chemical eradication kill insects and other arthropods of the same size as mosquitoes from bees to protected crustaceans, are particularly harmful to aquatic life, and are even dangerous to humans, as they are associated with diseases such as ADHD. Europe is on the verge of a serious ecological and food disaster due to mass bee mortality, among other things, but we continue to kill mosquitoes in Hungary with a drug that has been proven to be lethal to bees. And although the head of the agricultural portfolio responsible for environmental protection is, in principle, a beekeeper himself, somehow he has not raised his voice against bee poisoning. [[Bence Rétvári: He knows more than you, that's for sure!]] We also know that these poisons unfortunately kill both birds and fish, including the main natural enemies of mosquitoes, thus causing double damage. In addition, as a renowned Hungarian virologist warned in a press article, mosquitoes can create resistance against chemical agents, i.e. by chemical eradication, we also increase the risk of spreading increasingly dangerous tropical diseases with the climate crisis, because if an epidemic, such as some kind of tropical virus, is actually started, then we will no longer have anything to defend against it. Therefore, only in this case should chemical chemical mosquito control be used. There is a sustainable alternative to this chemical mosquito control: biological damage that destroys mosquito larvae is far more targeted, it also protects the environment and human health. And its effectiveness is nothing less than that of chemical methods. It is no coincidence that many European countries already use this method 80%. Obviously, they don't like to be stung by mosquitoes, but biological extermination is also effective. However, what we have seen now in the latest three-year public procurement on mosquito control of a net value of HUF 10 billion is that more than 80 per cent of chemical degradation was required, so more than 80 per cent of the area required in public procurement was defined as chemical extermination in this public procurement. So please respond to why they are not finally switching to the biological protection that has been successfully applied in other countries against mosquitoes, and why they continue to poison humans, on the one hand, and the wildlife, on the other hand, at the threshold of an ecological disaster, that is not very wise. Thank you.
u2023-06-12-97	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-98	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I trust that your speech in such a public procurement period is not an economic pressure, who should be involved in this company, and whom you are not, but indeed led by noble goals. Well, if we go back a few years only in time, by 2020, then the survey of major mosquito habitats along the domestic rivers began in the framework of the National Mosquito Abuse Programme, and as a result of the work, the ordering and efficiency of biological larceny is increasing year after year. [[16.10]] The effectiveness of biological protection is influenced by a number of factors. You didn't say anything about that. Among indigenous species, the widespread biological procedures against swamp mosquitoes are ineffective due to their way of life, and it is difficult to protect against invasive species, in the case of recently released tiger mosquitoes or others, so there are times when you can defend yourself biologically, sometimes you can't. The primary reason for this is that because of their close-to-human lifestyle, they develop not in typical breeding places, but in the house, in pots, in the water inside the tyre, in cemetery pots and similar places where it is more difficult to weaken. For this reason, the National Centre for Public Health regularly draws everyone's attention to the need to prevent the formation of breeding sites in their own environment, including through professional materials and weekly communications on disaster management. It cannot also be overlooked that the majority of larval sites along rivers are situated in protected natural areas, where even biological protection can only be carried out very limitedly. There is no biological protection procedure against adult mosquitoes, honourable Member, only chemical treatments are possible. There is no biological product available anywhere in the world in this case. Mosquitoicides used in our country are used at a very low dose, so bees are not endangered. No action was needed in the implementation of the National Mosquito Abuse Programme in any case as a result of bee mortality. You're here scaring the bees and the fish. Well, you couldn't give me an example of that, just like you couldn't give me a chance to die or die a bee. You can throw these things at me, Madam honourable Member, but this is just a more serious matter, so it would be good if you came up with specifics, not just such theoretical explanations. Resistance does not occur because protection against adult mosquitoes occurs only in residential areas and not everywhere, so the majority of the population does not meet the products and the re-entry prevents resistance. The territorial comparison of larval and adult mosquito control due to different habitats and technologies is completely pointless. In a small puddle of a few square meters, thousands of larvae can develop, as you well know, while after the flight, they can cause harm in several square kilometres. The use of aerial chemical mosquito control is only in the case of truly extreme mosquito content, honourable Member. I think it is good for all of us to assume the good about each other and try to take every effective and environmentally less destructive route to make the most of mosquitoes during the summer period, which interferes with people's pastime, either their recreation, their vacation, or their daily work in the garden. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-99	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-100	Unfortunately, I can't accept the answer. I would like to start by saying that we in the Dialogue Green would like to see that there are not many mosquitoes that sting people before they say that we want to do so, so I would like to say. But thank you for telling me that biological damage only affects larvae. Yeah, I know that, but somehow in the countries I've mentioned, they can repeatedly damage larvae effectively enough to make them less adult mosquitoes. The truth is that the national chief of staff has recently issued a permit for aerial mosquito control, which is supposed to be banned in the Union since 2020, could be affected by mosquitoes by air until the end of November. So if you say that biological mosquito damage is more difficult in protected areas, well, chemical, deltametrines mosquito damage is particularly harmful, and the problem with aerial damage is that even the smallest wind current can bring this chemical to areas that are particularly damaging not only to the arthropods, but also to aquatic life. So you should be more concerned with informing the public about it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What they really can do to keep their backyard, let's say, not so many mosquitoes...
u2023-06-12-101	Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-12-102	...and there are a number of things they should do in this area anyway, so I couldn't accept the answer.
u2023-06-12-103	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. What does the Government intend to do? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-12-104	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On June 4, 2023, the Government of Hungary operated the full paediatric surgery of Northern Hungary and Central Hungary with a single specialist. I think it is completely unnecessary to open a debate on the fact that this quality of supply is acceptable, as I would like to say now, neither the electorate nor I are curious about any false or uncontrollable statistics, and no one is interested in any historical reflection, let that be said in section XVII. from the century, 2008 or any other period. All you have to do for me, Deputy Minister, is answer a short but more important question. Do you wish to improve or, if you wish, how the government intends to improve on-call care so that a similar case may not occur in the future? And as a result of this decision, at how many locations, how many specialists can voters live in this area, if they are forced to use child surgery and child trauma care? I would like to ask, in addition, that, if possible, your answer be divided territorially, to separate locations in Central Hungary and to separate locations in Central Hungary and Northern Hungary, so that it is clear to everyone how many locations and doctors you intend to carry out your child traumatology visit in the future. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I thought you read the announcement of the ambulance service and the wallet after the interpellation, because you wouldn't run into such a question, but it seems that you either didn't read it or didn't consider it when you asked your question. If you had read this, you would know and know that the child trauma care system was transformed on the basis of a recommendation from the child trauma profession last year. Until then, there were three centers every day, but they had to be on duty five times a week. Here the system has been transformed by two large children's traumatological care providers every day, giving them three on-call visits to each supply point. As far as the specific case is concerned, as you know, the rescue service and the BM reported this precisely for a minute from 17 hours 20 minutes to 22 hours 06 minutes in one of the two suppliers, the National Accident Centre Manninger Jenő, had an IT error, and during the supply period, only one of the two suppliers was taken into one of the patients. In all countries around the world, one of the two suppliers is in a situation of force majeure and is unable to provide care for a few hours. But this is not a system error, honourable Member, and it is not a general situation that occurs every day, but it was a situation of individual force majeure for a few hours, and not a problem of the system. As I say, you'll find a hospital ward around the world that may stop for a few hours every few years because of some kind of problem. So neither you nor the press should look for a system failure where there is a force majeure situation. This has not been the case all day, and this is not the case on a regular basis; it has happened on one occasion and for a few hours. It wasn't a single doctor who provided so many patients that you referred to, but a hospital ward with two exam rooms, which means that three to four patients per room per hour had to be treated. Paramedics, the National Centre for Public Health, the National Hospital Directorate-General and everyone has done their job to provide as many children as possible, so these rumours should be treated with strong criticism, especially their qualification, and it is not worth judging the new primary care system on this basis, since basic care is completely different, it has nothing to do with this care. If you have examined the numbers, I hope you have done so, honourable Member, you will see that in this period of force majeure, between 17 hours 20 and 22 hours 06, you have had to treat 22 more patients at John's Hospital compared to the previous number of patients on Sunday. Obviously, however, this naturally results in an increase in the lines. I think there's a lot of us whose kids are on watch for these classes, whether they're going to John's Hospital or elsewhere, and, well, this is when you're terribly worried. [[16.20]] It's perfectly natural. Everyone wants to get their kids checked out as soon as possible. Obviously, you can't exactly judge when you're sitting there with your baby when you're carrying it, and the other kid you're bringing in, whose condition is worse. And everyone wants their own child to be examined first; even though the other is obviously a medically more serious case, and this obviously means more pressure on the medical and nursing staff there, because all parents would like to have their child examined or treated as much as possible if necessary. Of course, when we have to take our child to the hospital with any problems, whether it is John, Paul Heim, or anywhere else, people are very concerned and indeed more impatient, and this is obviously more difficult to deal with for the doctors there. But I'm asking you not to use this to tell me there's a system malfunction somewhere. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] when it was just about a temporary IT shutdown, but thank you all very much for your increased efforts to resolve this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-107	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take an answer. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-108	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I don't accept the answer. The reason why I do not accept the answer is because it is clear from Mr. Secretary of State's reply that, in practice, if there had not been a shutdown of the IT system... and a maximum of one, a location in Northern Hungary and Central Hungary could have been provided for on-call care. [[Sic!]] And the case itself perfectly points out that your new on-call system is completely inadequate to provide safety on the ground for people living in Central Hungary, North Hungary. Clearly, at that time, we had not yet talked about the distance that parents would need to do in the midst of anxiety to get to the emergency room. It is totally unacceptable that you do not provide adequate security, an adequate level of care for those who otherwise pay for this through social security. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-109	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. How does the introduction of mandatory food actions help to break inflation? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-12-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The war and the failed Brussels sanctions policy have led to unprecedented inflation across Europe. The government's aim is rightly to protect families, pensioners, full employment, further increase, prevent recession and reduce inflation to one-digit levels by the end of the year. The government is constantly introducing new instruments to this end. In addition to the twenty measures previously taken, the Hungarian Competition Authority will establish a common online goods monitoring system and a database with which we hope the government will increase, monitor and present the price changes of the products. In addition to these measures over the past period, new anti-inflationary measures have been decided to protect families, and as a result we can require shops with higher incomes to launch regular action. To this end, mandatory action in commercial businesses was launched from 1 June to reduce the increase in food prices due to increases in war and sanctions. From the point of view of customers, however, the most important thing is that each week you have a food basket of twenty products at a price that is much cheaper than the previous month but at least 10 percent lower than the most popular food. In the interests of consumers, we expect the new measure to stop overpriced and speculation by lowering prices and increasing competition, so that sanctioning inflation can be further reduced in the near future. As has been the case so far, both consumer protection and the Hungarian Competition Authority will continue and rigorously monitor, as we hope. Dear Secretary of State, The question is, therefore, the link between the functioning of the measures already in place and the culmination of inflation, as a result of which the decline in inflation and the mandatory action and the online price monitoring system launched in July will contribute significantly to reducing prices and increasing competition, as we hope, to making the decline in inflation drastic for the rest of the year. On this basis, I am therefore asking Mr State Secretary how the government is helping to reduce inflation by introducing mandatory food actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-112	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As you pointed out, the war and the Brussels sanctions policy have put a very heavy burden on Hungary and the Hungarian people. Energy prices are down, supply chains are down, transport costs are up. This has led to a serious wave of inflation across Europe, which has also significantly increased domestic food prices. The government is committed to protecting the cost reduction, families, pensioners and full employment. Our objective is to prevent recession and break inflation to one digit by the end of the year, and to reduce inflation to around 6 percent next year. Government measures to reduce inflation are in place so far. The results show that inflation has started to decline. After the 27.7% peak in January, inflation was already 21.5 percent in May, representing a decrease of 4 percentage points and a decrease of 2.5 percentage points compared to the latest data in April. This indicates that the decline in consumer prices is more dynamic and that government measures work. In order to reduce further, we introduced from June mandatory price-breaking operations in retail shops with a turnover of over HUF 1 billion. The primary objective of measures based on French and Greek examples is to provide people with access to a food basket of 20 products per week at affordable prices. The food basket includes, among others, poultrymeat, milk, sour cream and substitutes, cheese, bread, pastry, pasta, rice, fresh fruit and fresh vegetables. On the basis of the experience of the first days with the price break-down action, it can be said that retailers are overachieving the required price reduction of at least 10 per cent. In some cases, the mandatory action for a food basket of 20 products reached 30 percent. This is positive feedback and, as a result, families have much cheaper access to food. In the case of the price monitoring system, our primary goal is to increase price competition in addition to improving consumer awareness. The price monitoring system provides an opportunity for people to find out about the prices of certain shops in the system. The online database will include over 60 categories of food, including pork legs, white bread, 1.5 percent ESL milk, trappist block cheese, some apple varieties, sausage, margarine, butter, spaghetti noodles, and so on. In the case of products, the daily price and the price available to all will also be available. The government believes that the more price-sensitive consumer layer will contribute to reducing speculation and overpriced prices, reducing inflation. In addition, each family receives HUF 180,000 of support thanks to the protection of electricity, which also reduces inflationary pressures. These measures are able to reduce the daily burden on Hungarian families and pensioners and break sanctioning inflation down to one digit by the end of the year. Thank you for your attention, and I ask the Member to accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.30]]
u2023-06-12-113	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. The support for the measures introduced by Fidesz is, of course, uniform. Two points are also highlighted by the need to introduce these measures. One of the things that has been said here is that we really perceive from the customer side that certain food price increases, which have been the case in the past, cannot be justified merely by the increase in the price of raw materials, rather by a certain commercial pricing policy. On the other hand, it also highlights that one of the weaknesses of the Hungarian economy remains that, compared to the domestic trade chains, multinational chains, the pricing of which can be interpreted in a completely different context, are still majority in the Hungarian market. As long as these factors persist, these measures are necessary in order to achieve our objectives in terms of inflation by the end of the year. The answer is accepted. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:. What measures does the Government take to establish Hungary's energy independence? It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2023-06-12-116	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Madam Deputy Minister, On June 6, 2023, the online press and the media provided news about the truly huge energy investment in turf, which exceeds HUF 90 billion in total. Thanks to the grand project, Hungary's largest contiguous solar park has been completed, which accounts for 8 percent of the electricity produced by all domestic solar power plants, with which the annual CO2 emissions of Hungary can be reduced by up to 130 thousand tonnes per year. Madam Deputy Minister, The key question is how Hungary can better use its existing energy sources, facilities and how it can rely primarily on production in Hungary by turning on new ones and developing them, both in terms of security of supply security and in order to maintain energy prices at an accessible level and to protect the reduction of costs. Following Hungary's current import of 76 percent of the energy used, the government's efforts to cover energy needs with the largest possible domestic resources in the future are welcome. On several occasions, it has been said by the Minister that in order to achieve these objectives, the demand for natural gas in the domestic energy mix must be reduced, while the share of electricity, including alternative energy sources, must be increased. It is necessary to build new production and storage capacities and to expand existing ones and to implement infrastructure improvements that can also serve the growing demand for electricity. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant is also a key element of our energy independence, so we need to continue with Paks II. the implementation of the programme. Madam Deputy Minister, In the current energy supply difficulties, I consider it particularly important for the Government of Hungary to do everything possible to mitigate the harmful effects of the sanctioned energy crisis and to create energy sovereignty in Hungary in order to strengthen the security of our energy supply. I therefore ask the honourable Deputy Minister what measures the Government is taking to achieve Hungary's energy independence. I look forward to the honour of your reply, Madam Deputy Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-118	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you pointed out, the energy crisis caused by the war in Ukraine has basically started a new era. The government's most important task is to ensure Hungary's energy independence, ensure security of supply, protect the results of the reduction of the rent and keep energy prices at an affordable level, and also respond to increasing energy needs. In practice, our objectives are to increase the share of electricity in the energy mix, including electricity from alternative sources, to build new production and storage capacities and to further develop infrastructure. As the Member pointed out, Hungary needs nuclear power, so Paks I's extension of operational time is a very important message and Paks II. Its implementation is also extremely important. It is because of Hungary's natural resources, its geographical location, that nuclear energy is the one that can best ensure independence from international markets. In addition, solar energy has already been mentioned. I think that we have had a lot of results here in recent years. According to a recent analysis, Hungary has the sixth largest share of electricity mix in the world and the third largest share of solar energy in Europe. Last year, 1100 megawatts of new solar power plants and solar capacity were built more than ever before. These are big results. You referred to a specific investment in Mezőcsát. It has to be said that there is virtually a new switchboard in addition to the solar panel, and the investment is regional and national, as the solar panel there can produce 372 gigawatts of electricity every year. This Debrecen, with 200,000 inhabitants, can cover 21 years of energy consumption in Mezőcsa, or about 5700 inhabitants, i.e. the importance of this investment is enormous. In addition, the Ministry is also working to develop network developments and further storage capacity. It is also important to talk about diversification here when the issue of energy independence and energy supply arises. It should be said here that when we built these interconnectors, that's why there were voices on the left. But what we see now is that the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade recently discussed access to Norwegian natural gas sources, for example, in Oslo. Norway is one of the three largest natural gas exporting countries in the world, for example, the Hungarian-Slovak Interconnector is the way to our country. How important are the infrastructure improvements in which we have created the possibility of diversification at all? What is also important to note is that this year the natural gas supply from Azerbaijan will start to Hungary. In 2023, 100 million cubic meters of Azerbaijani natural gas will arrive in our country, which is the first step towards a major long-term contract. In addition, Prime Minister, last week he led a delegation to Turkmenistan, which, after Russia, Iran and Qatar, has the world's fourth largest natural gas supply. It is also in the interest of the European Union and Hungary to have Turkmenistan present in the European energy market, but this requires the construction of a 300-kilometer pipeline. Obviously, these infrastructure investments are all important to further strengthen Hungary's energy supply, energy independence and diversification. Thank you very much for your support and thank you very much for the entire KDNP fraction. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-119	I thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for your reply. I will also ask Mr. Congressman to accept the reply of the Deputy Minister.
u2023-06-12-120	Thank you very much. Mr President, Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister, for an honoured answer. Of course, I accept that and, of course, I consider it extremely important to create energy independence, but I think that there are obviously certain limits and limits to this in time, space, infrastructure and funding. So this is a very important process that we need to carry on. But in parallel with this important process, the most important thing is that we have energy security. I think that the government has therefore done a great deal over the last few years to preserve and maintain energy security and security of supply for both the population and the institutions and for economic operators. In addition, of course, the key issue is that we can maintain the reduction of the rent, which will help Hungarian families to get the energy cheapest in Europe. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.40]]
u2023-06-12-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member accepted the reply of the Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: what will be taxed next on the Hungarians' savings? It's an address. By replying to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr István Nagy, Minister for Economic Development and Economic Development, with responsibility and competence according to the subject, to be answered by Secretary of State János Fónagy, Deputy Minister, at the request of the Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-12-122	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, When, last year, the shadow government repeatedly pointed out that the Orbán government had eyes on people's savings, their bank savings, then you and the representatives of the Fidesz faction started talking about rumors in a choir, threatening us with reports and prisons, DK representatives. Then half a year passed, and what God gives, what happened was that Viktor Orbán signed a government decree, what we warned the country was that 13 percent extra tax was levied on the Hungarians' savings. We have long known that nothing is enough for you, so now you need the last saved Hungarian forints, at a time when most of the people can save some money from their salaries and their pensions, which was the last reserve for many. That is why it is a big problem that this 13 percent extra tax happens when the Hungarians most need this money right now, because Europe's record inflation in Orbán means that their salaries and pensions are less every day. However, Viktor Orbán is obviously not interested in this. In the middle of a serious livelihood crisis, he deeply reaches into the pockets of Hungarians to pay 13 percent tax to Hungarians' bank deposits, savings deposits, securities, and even their life insurance and pension insurance, so those who try to provide insurance for themselves or their loved ones will be punished, no matter what. I'll ask the Secretary of State what they're going to tax next. Can the Hungarians' bank accounts come, perhaps the cash held at home? What other tricks can we expect from you? Are they so desperate that they are forced to take such action because of the lack or absence of EU funds or the record deficit? Thank you very much for your reply. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-06-12-123	Dear Parliament, János Fónagy State Secretary, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-124	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In 2008-2009, when you were dealing with the crisis, the government led by the current President of DK had to turn to the IMF in order to maintain its operational capacity. The Orbán government regained the independence of our economy, as the government handed it over to the IMF before 2010. The recent measures of the current government are also about relying on internal resources as much as possible. The aim of the measures is not to increase the tax revenue of the State, but to increase the demand for sovereign debt and to strengthen citizens' financial awareness. Families should be protected, encouraged and helped to maintain the real value of household savings. In retail current accounts there are HUF 8000 billion of undrawn money, which in the current interest rate environment represents a huge loss of income for account holders, as banks virtually do not pay interest on it. The government's position is that they can only encourage people to maintain the real value of their savings if they know who they are, so it is good for banks to contact their customers. In the bank information letter, customers should be informed of how much they have failed if they have kept their money in bank deposits instead of sovereign debt. By maintaining the tax exemption for sovereign debt, it will be much more attractive for savers, and the stock of sovereign debt in public hands could increase significantly. The public will also benefit, as it can preserve the real value of savings, the budget will also benefit, because interest costs will be reduced, and the important goal of funding the budget from domestic funding can be met as much as possible due to the increase in demand for sovereign debt. Two other measures are aimed at achieving the self-financing objective. On the one hand, banks can deduct 10 percent of their increase in sovereign debt from the extra-profit tax, up to 50 percent of the extra-profit tax. For example, if a financial institution buys sovereign debt for HUF 100 billion, it can deduct 10 billion from the extra profit. The regulation of investment funds will also be modified. Securities funds should keep 95 percent of the bonds in sovereign debt and 20 percent of liquid assets in discount certificates. These steps will help the government to achieve its objectives: to protect the real value of public savings, to strengthen self-financing and to reduce public funding costs. The banking sector can generate an additional HUF 1300 billion demand for sovereign debt and some HUF 500 billion from investment funds. As a result, we can increasingly rely on our own internal resources to finance public debt, unlike the situation before 2010. As I mentioned earlier, the IMF was called upon by the government. I ask you to appreciate what I have said in my reply and accept my answer. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-12-125	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-126	Unfortunately, I cannot thank you very much, Mr President, but unfortunately I cannot accept the answer because, in fact, you have not responded with one sentence to the questions, the problem that I have asked, but a number of sentences that I have to highlight, because I find it infuriating in itself. You're saying that the public will benefit from this hearing from your mouth. How would the public benefit when they lose 13 percent, 13 percent extra tax on bank deposits and other assets? Why would the public benefit from this? ! I understand your logic, that the banks and the government benefit because they were able to raise funds, but they did the same thing with the private pension funds after they came to the government, and they said that it would be good for the economy, and then, whoosh, 3,000 billion disappeared. I cannot accept this answer in any way because it was not about what is good for people. Why would a tax increase, a new tax in this category, be good? So I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply in any way. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-06-12-127	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours 47 minutes, we've reached the end of the interpellation negotiations, we'll continue our work by discussing immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató and Olga Kálmán, representatives of DK, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the DK Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. It is now up to the representative of the DK fraction to ask the next question. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Why? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Zoltán Varga: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.50]]
u2023-06-12-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Well, your government, let's just say, the Inhuman Orbán government has also reached the assisted housing of people with multiple disabilities. You remember, in 2013, you decided that, like a lot of things, you would take this away from the municipalities and then hand it over to the state. That, of course, no, this was the end of the other failed government projects: ten years after the government revenue, there is hardly any suitable institution in the country, and not one in the capital region. Most of these institutions are designed to accommodate between 150 and 200 people. Do you think our in-house countrymen with multiple disabilities can receive adequate care in a hospice this size? Do you really think that carers can pay enough attention to all 200 people and develop them effectively? Well, what kind of lives do the people who live there have? ! Of course, you are obviously faced with the problem, and you are aware of it, because at the time there was a special legislation for the establishment of ten-person homes. There's only one problem, Mr. Secretary, that nothing of the promise has been made. As usual, you were not the first to have the welfare of Hungarians this time, and in ten years, you managed to create 11 homes. Unlike you, the Hungarians are the first to lead the shadow government led by the Dobrev Klára, so they have developed a package of proposals to solve the problem. A programme should therefore be set up for the establishment of institutions for people with multiple disabilities, and resources should also be provided for personal helpers and tools. This has already been submitted to Parliament by the DK faction in the form of a decision. I ask you, Secretary of State, why we have failed to create more suitable institutions in ten years. Why did they take the reserve away from the municipalities if you seem unable and do not want to solve the problem? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-129	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-130	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Obviously, your question doesn't belong to the Treasury Department. The fact that you claim that living in an institution, an institution with multiple disabilities is scarce and difficult is certainly not a matter for the Ministry of Finance. It is, however, that the portfolio, which is responsible for this care and which finances it, can receive an appropriate share of the budget. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to take into account the need for a particular portfolio, which relates to the particular service, in this case social service, and to have an appropriate amount when planning the budget. I believe that European Union funds are also available for the establishment, enlargement or renewal of such institutions. And the fact that the state has taken over this care from the municipality, I believe that it can be a good decision if it can take into account the needs of the disabled and its financing. In any event, the task assumed by the municipalities is given maximum responsibility by the State and, of course, its funding must also be provided in the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-131	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Then listen to what he said, and he'll realize that it's quite obvious that everyone who sits in this room can hear, see, feel that you're hopelessly lying. Mr. Secretary, I don't need any bullshit. Let's just say it out loud, they took the institutions to get their hands on it and possibly steal some of it. Because you have absolutely no interest in the fate of the disabled, no interest in the fate of the inmates, and the better it seems to you, the more oppressed these people are. [[Bence Rétvári: You have reduced the norm!]] Of course, this is not only about this one area, but also about a lot of other things, because you are not interested in inflation in Orbán, you are not interested in the state of hospitals, you are not interested in the situation of education, you are not interested in the livelihood of pensioners. That's the only thing he cares about. Orbán and his gang. That's the one you're interested in. Shame! And you will continue to do so as long as you have the opportunity to do so while you are in government. Even if the Hungarians expect help, they will receive nothing from you except oppression. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-133	Thank you, Congressman. Style is man. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-134	Thank you very much. Well, he reacted in a pretty nasty way. You can't really use anything other than the word "theft." [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is what was prescribed for him.]] If you're using the word "theft," I'm saying you're lying. But I'm not saying that. His own party president told me when they were on the government. What did you say? Morning, noon and night. [[Zoltán Varga: If you quote a classic, do it exactly!]] Well, you seem to remember lying and talking nonsense in Parliament at 5:00 p.m. If you wish to receive a professional answer to such a question at other times, put it in the relevant wallet. And if you do not know which is the competent wallet, then read the bill on the Statute, and then you will have the right answer, and you will not have to say such nonsense to you either. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-135	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Momentum Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. It is now time for a representative to ask the next question of the Momentum fraction. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, representative of the Momentum, wants to ask the President of the National Bank an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the absence of the President of the National Bank of Hungary, Vice-President Barnabas Virág was entitled to respond, whom I welcome to the Chamber. I ask the Member to accept the person of the respondents or to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank for his answer personally. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions.
u2023-06-12-136	I'll take it.
u2023-06-12-137	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-12-138	Thank you very much. Many may wonder what the Hungarian National Bank is doing. We know what his job is on paper and what role he has to play in a country's life: he defines monetary policy, he guarantees the value of the national currency, he sets the basic interest rate, he controls the commercial banks and he maintains confidence throughout the economy. Again, I ask: what does the Hungarian National Bank do? There is a serious livelihood crisis in Hungary. Without EU funding, the Hungarian economy is inoperable. Nowhere in the EU is inflation as high as in our country, and there are more and more open conflicts between the leadership of the MNB and the government. A few months ago, even György Matolcsy dared to go against his former boss, Viktor Orbán, and said that there is a fundamental conflict between the central bank and the government. He also said that we have been on the wrong track since 2021, and it doesn't seem to change this year. I wonder if it is part of the misconception that the Hungarian National Bank, which lost 400 billion dollars, is still in the pocket of Ádám Matolcsy and his circle of friends. But back to the opposite of principle, it's even more interesting what the President of the Central Bank said about price caps. He called price capping the biggest malpractice of the state socialist tempo, and he would have led it out with immediate effect. And you said that months ago. Instead, we are slowly halfway through the year, and there is no indication that the price caps pumping inflation will be stopped. Momentum consistently represents its position that they should be abolished. Deputy! So the Hungarian National Bank agrees with the Momentum Movement? Do you also think that what the government is doing with the Hungarian budget is irresponsible gambling? And is there still a conflict of principle between you and the government? Thank you.
u2023-06-12-139	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice President Barnabas Virág. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. In the meantime, I'll hand over the chair to Vice President Latorcai. There you go. You have the floor. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2023-06-12-140	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to answer the question very briefly. I would like to start by saying what the Hungarian National Bank is doing. I'd like to list some results from the last ten years. [[17.00]] Since 2013, the Hungarian economy has been on a balancing growth path until 2019, so our internal and external balance has been achieved at the same time, while our economic development has been constantly approaching the European average. This, similarly, when we have maintained growth and development while maintaining balance, has not been the case in the last hundred years. Between 2017 and 2021, the Hungarian National Bank ensured price stability, the average inflation was 3 per cent over these four years, which is a statistical fact only because it should be stressed every time, I think for those Members who are not fully aware of this in their incomplete form. In 2020-2021, the Hungarian National Bank introduced 11 thousand billion HUF of liquidity into the Hungarian economy during a period when an extraordinary epidemic affected the whole world and within Hungary, thus establishing the very rapid recovery that occurred by the middle of 2021, which took six and a half years after 2008-2009, which took place in 2021 in six quarters. Finally, the financial markets have been affected in an extraordinary environment in the last year, in a war environment, by significant volatility, and I would like to refer specifically to the period of October last year. During this period, the Hungarian National Bank acted decisively, ensuring the stable functioning of the Hungarian financial markets, which has been typical since then, and at a time when there is a war, an energy crisis and a geopolitical reorganization in the world, we are able to preserve the stable functioning of the Hungarian financial markets and, through this, the rapid decline of the extremely high price pressure in the Hungarian economy in the next period. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In answer to your question: practically all the results of the Hungarian economy achieved over the past decade were backed by the Hungarian National Bank.
u2023-06-12-141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr Dávid Bedő for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-142	Thank you very much for the answer, but it seems that you have only been able to answer the rhetorical question. [[Bence Rétvári: Because that's all you wrote down.]] And it seems that your boss is the only one who's ever been honest, and you haven't been able to tell the truth here, have you? I have asked you three very simple yes-no questions: on the one hand, that you agree with the Momentum that you should lead out the price caps; on the other hand, that you are a gambler of what the government is doing with the budget; and the third is that there is a conflict of principle between you and the government. On all three of these questions, your boss, the President of the Central Bank, György Matolcsy, has already said yes. I want you to say the same thing. The fact that you are here repeating the government's panels that there is inflation in this country because there is a war and because there are sanctions in Brussels; you know that that is not true, because your boss has already said that this is not true. I would definitely suggest that you [[Bence Rétvári: No sanctions?]] To negotiate in-house so that they can be on the same page as the central bank president. Thank you. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-06-12-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Eszter Vitályos: There is no war and no sanction. He's a smart-ass.]] A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Vice-President. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-144	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it's worth taking it back a little bit, and if we're trying to quote the President, that's exactly what we're gonna do. [[Eszter Vitályos: Be modest!]] So about the price stops, what did the President say and what did the analysis of the Hungarian National Bank say? With regard to pricestops, our figures showed that pricestops were able to effectively curb price increases during a short period of time, i.e. after the introduction, but as long as these measures persist, there are mechanisms in the economy that will be avoided and, in practice, reflect the effects there at the price of other products. This was what the analysis of the Hungarian National Bank said, so please do exactly that if you refer to the President of the Central Bank in the future. And finally, one last thought about what is expected in cooperation between the central bank and the government, and how this will have an impact on inflation. I think that last month's figures clearly show that inflation is declining rapidly in Hungary, which will continue in the coming months. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The reason for this is that all pillars of Hungarian economic policy are in the same direction this year, both monetary, budgetary and regulatory policies, through which the single-digit inflation range will be available by the end of the year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is the amount of money?" Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the head of the MSZP's faction did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response to this immediate question, this should therefore be regarded as not requiring a personal reply by the representative who asked the question on the basis of the House Rule of Decision. Accordingly, Mrs Zita Gurmai will have the floor, and then Mr Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister, will answer. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-06-12-146	Thank you very much. Dear House, On 23 May, György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, strongly criticized the official prices that curbed the increase in food prices, according to him the price caps made inflation at the end of 2022 and at the beginning of 2023 3-4 percent higher. Therefore, it proposed that the government set the official prices for food as soon as possible. Now, according to the Minister for Economic Development, Márton Nagy, the price caps have only 1 percent of the downward pressure on inflation, i.e. quite insignificant. This suggests that the government has seriously considered abolishing official prices after 30 June. However, before making this decision, I think that a very important thing should be considered. The main point of the food price stop is that basic foods cannot be given more expensively than the prices applicable on 15 October 2021. Since then, a year and a half have passed, only this year the increase in food prices has repeatedly exceeded 40 percent. If the official prices disappear overnight, then the products concerned will be brutally expensive, and we know what it means, because according to KSH, retail sales were 10.4 percent lower in the first four months of the year than in the previous year, so that the families spent less, so that the Hungarian people live worse. That is why I ask with all due respect, they really want to abolish the official prices at more than 40 percent inflation in food prices, and a survey has been carried out to assess the percentage of basic food prices that would increase after the introduction of official prices. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2023-06-12-147	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, the answer will be given by Mr. Balázs Orbán, the Prime Minister's political director. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-148	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As a result of the war and the misguided economic sanctions imposed on it, inflation has increased across Europe, in our view as long as this war environment persists and as long as the failed sanctions in Brussels remain in force, there will be a very difficult economic situation everywhere in Europe. The government's position is firm, we are not going to this political battle with our hands up, but we want to fight against increased inflation, and as a result of many decisions, inflation is now on a declining path, we are over the top, and the Member has heard more than once in the last few hours about this from my fellow Members. The goal remains to break inflation by the end of the year, which means that it must become at least one digit. The pace of the decline is encouraging, but the rate of decline is not yet enough to lead us to a very useful and efficient food price stop, so we are extending it until 30 June. As of 1 June, mandatory food promotions in shops started, one product in 20 product categories should be provided at least 10 percent, but also cheaper, to the service providers. And these mandatory grocery deals will definitely stay with us until 30th of September. Since the introduction of the price stop, consumer protection controls have been ongoing, with more than one billion HUF fines being imposed by the authorities and an online price monitoring system starting on 1 July. So we would like to maintain a food price stop as long as the inflation environment allows us to do so. His argument, therefore, is not with us, but with your political allies, as he heard the previous speech. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Political Director. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has a one-minute relationship answer. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-150	Thank you very much. Well, once again, we have seen a misconception, since you did not answer my question specifically as to whether basic food will be increased by eliminating official prices from 1 July. He talked about the types of actions that are obviously being introduced, and they do so when food still costs 33.5 percent, and they know precisely that food prices are not driven by price caps, but by government tax increases and special taxes; this tax increase, of course, increases prices. The food price stop, even to a small extent, reduces the spending of small-money people in any way, and we say that radical tax changes should be made, but since you are not willing to do so, we should at least keep the food price caps. I ask you to answer specifically why you want to increase basic food prices from 1 July and how much the price of these products will increase. Thank you. [[17.10]]
u2023-06-12-151	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Balázs Orbán, political director. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-152	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't have a problem with perception, and I hope you don't have a problem with perception. I cannot answer your question because we do not know the inflation data that are necessary for the government to make the right decision. I can make a point of intent, and I think it's pretty definite: the extent of the decrease should be sufficient to lead to a series of price stop measures without social negative effects. We are not yet here, so we are sure that the decisions are in place until 30 June. I would like to ask you to excuse the political pecking, but if you listen to the people around you with whom you are in a political alliance, all the speeches are about the need to get the food stop out. The speaker in front of you sided with the bankers against the people and demanded the immediate launch of the price stop. So you've got something to sue. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He is not with the Hungarian government, but with the left and their left-wing political allies. Then let's unite our forces and put pressure on them. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Political Director. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Brenner Koloman, Mr László György Lukács, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát and Mr Ander Balázs, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the leader of the Jobbik Group has said in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so that the Prime Minister will have to answer in his absence at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. We now have the question of the next representative of the Jobbik faction, who would like to ask a question, and this is Mr Ander Balázs. Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, granted the right to reply. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2023-06-12-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The school's most important, most valuable product, let's say, is a man of work equipped with knowledge. This is the knowledge that Viktor Orbán said our competitiveness was covered by gold. It's just that this gold cover has been sold very cheaply to the global capital, which, by the way, is practically agreed with your left-wing ancestors. You're welcome to shake hands from that point of view. Albert Szent-Györgyi once said that the future will be like today's school, and if we accept these words of our Nobel Prize winner and take a look at the home school system where this knowledge is produced, then a very sinister future will be mourned. Let's see how old the educator society is: the vast majority of them will reach retirement age in a few years, and the fact is that replacements are very bumpy, because young people who choose to start teaching in an adventurous way will crumble at speed, which is no wonder. I mean, what do they have? Humiliation, intimidation, and financial oppression. Let's look at the data. If, let's say, we are comparing average teacher's earnings to graduate salaries, then we see that the average teacher's salary is half the salary. They have reached 13 years, Mr Secretary of State, that next year's budget, which would like to call for a raise in the form of a wage increase for teachers, cannot compensate for the effects of inflation in Orbán. That's what I'm waiting for, by the way. Why do they always want to raise funds from Brussels, not from national sources? Then, beyond the humiliating teacher payments, the most important question is that if you do not stay here as a teacher, chemistry teacher, physics teacher, mathematician, IT teacher, we can also say goodbye to the idea of competitive Hungary, the civic Hungary you refer to so often. Why don't you think about that, Mr. Secretary? I'm waiting for an answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-06-12-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have given me good news, Congressman, you have said that you would like a measure that will help young teachers to stay on the teaching field as much as possible and not crumble. It's a common goal. Then I ask you, here will be your chance to support the new teacher's career law, because that is precisely the purpose of the earlier, complex wage system with 114 pay categories, and against the wage system with a negative impact on young people, career beginners, a pay system with a particularly high wage increase for young people. Then you can support the new career model, the essence of which is that performance determines the wages of each person, not ten, twenty, thirty, or forty years ago, of a university or college degree, and not of exactly how old he is now, but of who makes more for children, who does more for them, and thus determine the wages. I am very confident that you will be able to support the new teacher's career law, because that is precisely the purpose of it. And I trust you also agree, honourable Member, that what we have heard from Mr Ara-Kovács, MEP DK of the European Parliament, in recent days, when he said that I am working for the EU to take away the funds due to Hungary, do not pay these funds, you do not consider it acceptable to you, because then you can also say it to Márton Gyöngyösi; for whom you have withdrawn, I remember, in return, in the presidential elections within Jobbik, you could sit here in Parliament, in the place of one of the liberating better seats. Because our goal then, honourable Member, is that if Hungary already has 800 billion forints for a teacher's wage increase, and all that is needed is for Brussels to pull an artificially built barrier away from it, between the Hungarian teachers and the teacher's wage increase, then you too should speak up and dare to speak in Brussels as well. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Not only here, but also there, that money is due to Hungarian teachers, because within two years, the average salary of teachers will be 800,000 forints, and this is an important goal for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-157	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ander Balázs. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-158	Secretary of State, this money is indeed due to Hungary, the community of Jobbik-Conservatives says so, but this money does not come here to practically steal it from the NER holdudvara. Then, we said it a thousand times, but once again, Mr Secretary of State: after the collapse in Trianon, after the Trianon peace dictatorship, Klebelsberg did not come to Paris for the resources he had been holding out to bring home education. I would like to point out that the Czech Parliament has not long accepted that 130 percent of the average wages will be paid by teachers there, which, according to KSH data, would amount to HUF 800,000 in Hungary. [[Bence Rétvári: That's what we talked about!]] So why do they always point to Brussels, Mr. Secretary? [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Márton Gyöngyösi...! The president's ringing the bell.]] There is also one thing called national sovereignty, please act in this spirit and settle the wages of the Hungarian teachers, the nation's day laborers, not always refer to anything else, show them, and look elsewhere for the miracle! That would be your dog's duty if they really considered themselves national and civil parties. But where the cultural etalon Little County says, "Winner, I'm not surprised." Thank you. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-06-12-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-160	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You said that EU money should not come to Hungary because it will be stolen here in Hungary. Well, let's see. The party that Lajos Simicska could buy in a few months [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Big words.]] Well, from that party, such sentences, honourable Member, are very brave, indeed, here in Parliament. Tell me, Congressman, there's $800 billion for a teacher's wage raise, and you're telling me not to come here because Fidesz is gonna steal it. But, honourable Member, it goes directly to the teachers. Where can you steal any money from a raise anywhere, for anyone? ! It goes one-on-one with the teachers. So that's why it's unacceptable what you're arguing with. The difference is the double standard: you count the wages of teachers in Hungary for the average salary, and the average wage in the Czech Republic. Well, the average wage is obviously lower than the average salary. That is why he says that the Czech Republic has a nice ratio compared to the average wage, and in Hungary they are weaker than the average salary. Well, of course, because the average graduating salary is higher. You said it would be nice to have an average salary of 800,000 forints for teachers. This is exactly what I concluded, that if Hungary could finally use our resources in the way we want, and we would like to use this to the greatest extent for educators' wages, there is no greater construction in Hungary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] neither in the EU, as the Hungarian teacher's wage increase, then you and Márton Gyöngyösi and the left-wing representatives will be prevented from doing so. And I'll see you in the debate. Goodbye. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.20]]
u2023-06-12-161	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State, I know the heat takes you away from time to time. [[Bence of Rétvári: The Szentendrei! Defiance.]] But a one-minute time frame applies to you just like everyone else. Member László Toroczkai, the leader of the Group of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Why are you assisting with global plans, Prime Minister? It's an address. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Head of the Group of Our Country has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so that, due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence, he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. We now have the question of the representative of the Mi Hazan faction who will ask the next question, and Mr Dócs will have the floor. Congressman Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: "How long will the government burn itself with battery factories? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of the Minister, Deputy Minister Levente of State was entitled to reply. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[On the sign of David Dócs:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman David Dócs has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-162	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, My question will be urgent, because not only does the flame of dissatisfaction flare up here and there, but the batteries or battery factories are also quite densely: the last time such a fire occurred in my narrowest Patria, the county of Nógrád, in the area of Bátony, for the third time in the last short period. According to Minister Szijjártó, let us believe that these battery factories and the activities that are taking place here are not dangerous, yet we can report dozens of news proving exactly the opposite from the past period. After all, last week dozens of people were taken from Iváncsa, among others, to the hospital because they had some kind of sickness due to heavy metals; but I could say that Göd, Debrecent, Salgótarján, or even a thousand other settlements where workers were suffering from virtually serious damage due to similar technology. I cannot stress that the government has misplaced the strategic direction, because we are simply not a country blessed with materials for battery production, but we are an agricultural country, yet we are not exporting most of the most of the first-class healthy food from Hungary today, but from batteries. So much so that if the investments that are still under way are made, we will be practically the second largest battery exporter in the world, right after China in line. We do not really understand why this is good for Hungarian people, because foreign multinationals bring these companies here, the technology is mostly carried abroad, as well as most of the profits, and the work is already provided by workers from the third to fourth worlds. So I ask why the government is pushing for battery production, which is not responsible for or is not responsible for the safety and growth of Hungarian people. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-06-12-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister Levente Magyar, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-164	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for the suggestion. He spoke again about a current case in the House walls, a case that we had already held for a separate parliamentary debate, where I was personally fortunate to argue here for five or six hours in the night in favour of battery production. One of our main arguments was then and we continue to hold it; since Mr President specifically referred to this aspect in his speech that battery production is not an exclusive activity that the government is focusing on in terms of economic development. There is therefore no contradiction between building a country with even greater capacity to produce quality food and building on agriculture to a much greater extent than in recent years; this is not in any way contradicting the need to develop industry, and in industry, primarily, sectors that are indicators of the future that can guarantee the long-term sustainability of our current industrial capacities. Battery production, the creation of an electric car-making ecosystem in Hungary is essential for this, because in a significant part, simply because of our economic history, Hungary today, as many countries of Central Europe, but Hungary relies even more heavily on automotive production and on the various sectors of vehicle manufacturing in general. All these sectors are going through a development, now in a few years, in practice, that if we miss out on, this industrial base will be out of our way over the next decades with hundreds of thousands of jobs, huge added value, essential contribution to GDP. We are therefore focusing on battery production, and I am pleased that Hungary is doing extremely well in this competition. Believe me, we are also competing with Western Europe, North America, for every factory, and we welcome all the jobs that are created in this sector in Hungary, and not elsewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-165	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dócs. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-166	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, In fact, your fight against the mandatory quota is quite false when the hundreds of thousands of jobs, mentioned by the Secretary of State, are intended for foreign workers, and hundreds of thousands of foreign workers from the third to fourth worlds have already invaded the country, and the limit is probably the starry sky, because we see these battery factories being installed on each other's backs. However, at best, the national economy should be built on things that make a country look good and can perform well. This isn't battery production for us. He mentioned that automotive assembly plants also greatly increase the growth of the Hungarian economy. That's true, but we've been a country of iron and steel; I don't think that was our way either. We should, quite simply, focus on our agricultural conditions and mobilise greater forces from the government, as we are also living in a food crisis. I think we should therefore build on this trend instead of on battery production. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-06-12-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-168	Thank you very much. Mr President, I fully agree that we need to give greater emphasis to our agricultural conditions in the future. Hungary is a country with extraordinary qualities, when we look at its water resources, quality agricultural land, the traditions of agricultural farming. I think that these capabilities are not being maximised at the moment in terms of their potential, and we need to place greater emphasis on this in the next period. Just as the government has an idea about this, but this is another topic, it must be discussed on another day. Once again, the development of agriculture and rural development are in no way inconsistent or exclusive with battery production, it is not our intention to ensure the Hungarian perspective of this very important sector. I would like to tell you that there are no hundreds of thousands of third-country workers in Hungary. There are a few tens of thousands of countries that are not EU Member States, and we want to increase this figure as little as possible, depending on how we can supply these extra capacities with domestic workers. We're in the same shoes as other countries in the region. In Hungary there are by far the least foreign workers in terms of the Visegrád Four and the surrounding countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-169	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why should Hungarian people and our environment be sacrificed for the profits of the multinationals in the Far East? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In view of the fact that the leader of the Dialogue did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response to this immediate question, this should be considered as not to be a personal response by the questioner on the basis of the House Rule of Decision. [[Szabó Rebekah nods.]] Accordingly, I would like to inform you that your question will be answered by Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister. Here you go. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor.
u2023-06-12-170	Thank you. Dear House, Dear Director, While your government is organizing multibillion-dollar consultations with propaganda steels, you have forgotten to ask the Hungarian people how they want to have toxic, water wastage and huge electric battery factories in the country; they want us to be a assembly plant, so that the distance-eastern multinationals can invest hundreds of billions of dollars in public funds as support, while giving high attention to Hungarian environmental, disaster protection and OSH rules. [[17 .30]] Greenpeace Hungary, on the other hand, has done this for you, and the result of their polls has been that nearly two thirds of Hungarians disagree with the fact that new battery factories are being built in Hungary, and they are most afraid that the plants will pollute the environment with dangerous substances, which, unfortunately, will happen, and not only harm the environment, but also people's health. Over the past week, at the Battery in Ivanča, there have been dozens of people sick because of serious labour violations. Moreover, the workers there had to pay their unpaid wages with roadblocks. In the Göd battery factory, 39 serious work and environmental violations were imposed over three years. Because of the factory in Komárom, you are about to dry out the Karst region in Tata. In Debrecen, two battery factories are already planned to need virtually a third of their power supply. I ask you, then, knowing that besides the industrial park in Győrszentiván, there has just been an embryonic substance called NMP found in the groundwater, the amount of which may increase because of a possible battery production, that they really want to build our energy-poor and water-defying country with battery factories, while using Hungarian taxpayers' money to create jobs for Asian migrant workers, not primarily for Hungarian workers. And here I would like to draw attention to what the Secretary of State said earlier: we are not a very well-stocked country. Hungary is a country with water shortages, we should pay close attention to our water resources, and you will not do so. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-12-171	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer to Mrs Orbán's question is answered by Mr Orbán, political director of the Prime Minister. Here you go, Director.
u2023-06-12-172	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I must admit, I was a little surprised to hear your speech, because you are a pro-green Member, and therefore I expected a Green Party speech from you. I am also surprised that you are, by the way, opposed to greening the transport sector which is the most important for global and pan-European reductions in emissions. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Poison green.]] As far as I know, the position of the greens is supporting opposite and even more radical greening programmes in the field of electromobility. Now, the greening of the transport sector, translated without electromobility, without building battery factories and without merging the automotive and battery companies, cannot be imagined. It may not be a coincidence that, therefore, huge struggles are being waged for these investments throughout Western Europe. If all that you say is true, that the impact of these environmental loads is far above the social and otherwise environmental positives that are expressed in this regard, then there would probably not be such competition. But there is competition, among other things in Germany, where pro-green governments come in line and praise the battery factories that exist in Germany and are pleased to see companies arriving that are committed to sustainability and the conservation of resources. So I have to tell you that there is a cognitive dissonance between what you have said and political rationality and social rationality, which should be resolved, but probably the Government of Hungary will not be able to help you. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-173	Thank you very much, Director. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-174	Dear Director, You failed to respond to many of my points, so I ask you once again that you think that you or your government are lying when you say that the Hungarian authorities are controlling the battery plants and that there is no pollution. Then how could the workers of Ivanča get sick or have been 39 serious violations at the Battery Factory in Göd? My other question is, where do you think it ends? So I understand that it's good, one battery plant, two, three, so how do you imagine how many battery companies you can fill this small country with, where there's not enough electricity, there's not enough water, there's not enough labor to make these factories work. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] By the way, we, the Greens, have said on several occasions that although there is a need for electromobility, we need to consider and reorganize transport in the first place. [[Bence Rétvári: Budapest did not go well!]] We can't make as many electric cars as there are petrol cars running around Europe right now. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We have diesel!]] We must also reduce transport and our consumption, otherwise this world will not be sustainable. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-12-175	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Director. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-176	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I do not understand, Congresswoman, why you are not aware or why you pretend not to be aware of the fact that environmental rules are harmonised rules at EU level. So in Hungary, exactly the same environmental standards must be complied with as in Sweden, Germany and all countries which you refer to as a constant, boring example. [[Rebecca Szabó: The authorities won't listen!]] Of course, all environmental standards must comply with all manufacturing capacities. It is for the authorities to verify this. [[Rebecca Szabó: But they don't!]] And the other is, how do we imagine it? We imagine that the Minister and Minister Péter Szijjártó are constantly making investments, the Minister and Minister János Lázár are building the infrastructure, the Minister and Minister Csaba Lantos provide the necessary energy to save vehicle manufacturing capacity, and we will even be the top riders of Europe in terms of the latest type of vehicle production capacity. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and with this we increase Hungarian GDP and Hungarian general quality of life and employment year after year, as we have done in the last 13 years. [[Rebecca Szabó: That's right, about The '50s.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-177	Thank you very much, Director. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó, your two minutes have passed! [[Rebecca Szabó: Unfortunately! Nacsa Lőrinc: We're sorry too! Dr. Balázs Orbán: We were just getting started.]] So I'm gonna ask you very nicely when it comes back. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "How could this happen, Madam Minister? It's an address. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-178	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, I've never had so many people ask me to ask a minister in person about a case. Madam Secretary, according to the D.A.'s office, your former deputy, former second in the Ministry, served the enforcement mafia for years. And we know that during that time, a lot of people, a lot of families, have been ruined by corrupt enforcers. Dear Madam Secretary, Now, during the interrogations, we have heard numerous statements from colleagues from the Ministry of Justice working at different levels that they tell us about how enforcement applications have been fixed. And there was a confession that the Secretary of State couldn't have been a colleague who didn't know about it at the gossip level. Madam Secretary, how could the D.A.'s office consider corruption to be the second person in the Ministry of Justice? How could it have happened that in recent years you, as Head of the Ministry, didn't perceive this? Madam Minister, for many years this system has been in place, the legal framework of which has been created by you, and Pál Völner has personally represented the government on such matters for years, and in a system that is fundamentally unsavory and in many respects opaque, the executives have ruined the lives of many people, and on the other hand, they have spent amazing astronomical sums. According to the indictment, György Schadl and his wife's office generated a total of HUF 2 billion between 2016 and 21, and according to the indictment, Schadl paid even 1 billion bribes. On the other hand, last year, the proceeds of the executives were HUF 9 billion, Madam Secretary. For everything that happened at the D.A.'s office, and the way this system worked, you feel responsible, is there anyone inside the government who feels responsible for this, who takes responsibility from the government side? And the most important question, Minister: in cases where corrupt executives or illegally appointed executors can be proved to have unlawfully looted people from their assets, are you prepared to create a system of compensation? And if so, in what way, when and how will this be made possible? Thank you very much for the answer. [[A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2023-06-12-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Judit Varga. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-180	Honourable Congressman, Since you posted on your Facebook page about what you were going to ask me about, I had time to prepare. And I regret that you have to wait an hour for the viewers to hear my answer, but perhaps this will give me the opportunity to talk about things that you have been silent about, that over the past year the Ministry has received 47 oral and written interpellation questions, none of which has mentioned the many legislative initiatives that we owe to the Ministry, and which have been adopted here in Parliament over the past years, which have all tried to ease the situation of debtors. This was also my express ambition during my ministry, as it is very important in the implementation of the procedures that we can create a proper balance, a balance between the legitimate interests of the creditor and the debtor. Therefore, allow me to draw attention here and now to some of the things that you do not call attention to, because they are not acting correctly in this enforcement system. [[17.40]] It is very important, for example, that the system for the recovery of child support charges has been radically changed during my ministry, especially in order to help single-parent families. This means, in short, that until the child has received the amount, the enforcer works practically for free, because he cannot account for any commission, any costs, nothing in the procedure until the child receives the rightful alimony. But I could also mention that in Covid's time, we initiated, among the first, the immediate suspension of all procedural acts, including evictions and auctions, so that no such enforcement action was carried out practically for nearly two years. They also forget to mention, honourable Member, that we have raised the debtor on my initiative... so if the debt does not reach HUF 500 000, then there will be no real estate auction, because in recent years there has also been an example of someone's total property being taken away because of a simple parking surcharge. So what I would like to ask is that when you attack the implementation and the whole system, it should be a little fair, and also pay attention to how many good things have happened in the past. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-12-181	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman László Keresztes. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-182	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, I feel that you do not primarily have to answer to me about the Völner-Schadl case, which you have not said a word about, or the possibility of compensation, but to the people whose lives have been ruined by corrupt executives. Madam Secretary, I have repeatedly proposed that György Schadl, who has been in prison for a year and a half, can be replaced, since his position is that he is in prison, and that the new executives should have taken the oath before him, but it has not been realized. Since he's been in prison, 46 bailiffs have sworn in, according to our conviction, illegal. What is your legal position on this, and what have you done to clarify the situation, and how do you see what new infringements may result from it? The Ministry, through the Secretary of State, has repeatedly dismissed responsibility for the system of legislation here, although under the Government Decree adopted in 2022, which describes the duties of ministers, you have the responsibility to legislate on implementation. When are you going to touch this system? When are you proposing a whole new enforcement bill? And once again, I would like to point out to the Minister that, in the context of the compensations, she does not have to answer to me, but to the people concerned. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-06-12-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is a matter for the secretary.
u2023-06-12-184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, many things have been affected in this one minute, and a minute is not enough to respond to everything and put everything in place, but I would like to say that what you are pushing for is a democratic decision concerning the Executive Faculty and its assembly, since they could have called their own President back by two thirds. The interference of legislation in such a democratic process would raise further questions. By the way, since 1 October 2021, the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities has been involved in enforcement issues, which I think you know very well. By the way, your question has largely run out of reasons, since the renewal took place on 27 April, and the executive assembly itself chose, I think, by 160 out of 170 votes, a new President and a new Presidency. So, technically, that question is settled. I would also like to point out that the whole enforcement procedure itself is lined up with an enormous number of remedies, thereby guaranteeing the highest level of the rights of debtors and those in distress. Therefore, for each procedural act, whether before or during implementation, there are plenty of remedies available to debtors. And let's not make it look like the execution is something negative. It has existed for thousands of years, and we are talking about the recovery of private debts after the public debt is collected by the NAV. It is therefore also important to state here that implementation is part of the rule of law. This is the question of many representatives, which all raises a negative picture, which he questions as if the justice system is not a legitimate part of the implementation. I'm asking you to keep that in mind as a responsible politician. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-12-185	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. It is undisputed that there were so many questions on this immediate question that the time frame would greatly limit the respondents. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Boglárka Illés, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "How long must we endure corruption in Brussels? It's an address. Congresswoman Elijah Boglarka has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary, Dear House, Corruption in Brussels has already developed to the point that we might not be surprised to hear that left-wing politicians in Brussels would sell the stars from the flag of the Union. The difference between the left in Hungary and the left in Brussels, I think, is real. At home, and in Brussels, they sell out the trust of their constituents in euros. Perhaps this is also the reason why, when corruption is being examined within the walls of this House, somehow corruption in Brussels is always forgotten and never mentioned. We remember that the Vice-President of the European Parliament, Vice-President Eva Kaili, on the left, was on the news in December with his suitcases. Then he was found with more than EUR 1.5 million in cash in a police search, and the worst corruption scandal in the history of the European Union has ever started, which is already dragging the entire European left with him. We also remember that Eva Kaili is the left-wing politician who tried to escape the authorities with his family with this suitcase full of cash. And we also remember that Eva Kaili is the left-wing politician who complained of inhumane detention conditions from the luxurious prison, and Eva Kaili is the politician who was able to reprimand his fellow Members after that because he claims that they did not stand up for him and did not allow him, did not support him in continuing his duties as Vice-President. But who were the ones who came to Eva Kaili's aid? Of course, the Amnesty International held by George Soros. Dear Madam Secretary, Left-wing politicians sell voters' trust for dollars, in Brussels they do it in euro. Corruption is rewarded in Brussels with a luxury prison, where criminals can walk in and out of, while we are constantly being lectured about the rule of law. How much longer do you think we're gonna have to put up with this? [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-12-187	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Judit Varga. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-188	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to recommend this answer and this subject to the attention of Mr Keresztes, since it is worth giving as much attention to this as to the previous case in order to avoid double standards. The events of recent months, if we are watching, we see that the world is really starting to turn upside down, and I would not be surprised if the European Parliament were to vote that corruption is a European value, but only if it is in the European Parliament and whoever is investigating it is against the rule of law, because in a world so highly turned upside down, it is a puddleless and cynical declaration made by Mrs Kaili. After all, he also said that it is not a scandal that he is involved in corruption, but that it is that the authorities start investigating these matters. The other similar, outrageous example is the case of Congressman Tarabella, who then came out of house arrest for three months and immediately went to vote, pressed the button so that Hungary could not fill it, according to them, in 2024 the EU Presidency-in-Office. But it is also worth watching today's news, as the former Director General of the Budget is now on the front page in Europe, who, by the way, has made several changes to our declaration systems in the conditioning process, and it is now apparent that Bali is also operating a luxury hotel in addition to being Director General for several thousand euros a month's salary. So we have what to look for when we say that, in the time of our Presidency, we want to examine the rule of law in the institutions, specifically in the ranks of the European Parliament, and, of course, this is the frustration, this is the anxiety that creates such decisions in Parliament, which would like to deprive Hungary of the Presidency, so that it is not about them, at least, for the examination of the rule of law. What I would just like to confirm here, honourable Member, is that whatever the European Parliament says, it is as if they decided not to rain tomorrow. So it will be a Hungarian Presidency, otherwise it is not a law, but an obligation, we are preparing for that with great forces. Last week, the Directors-General of the Council of the European Union came here to prepare for joint preparation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-12-189	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. One minute in return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Boglarka Illés. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The outrage that left-wing politicians in Brussels are playing sport by accusing us of what they are actually doing, while their fellow Hungarian politicians, Hungary, are regularly being attacked. By voting, they create obstacles to the legitimate resources of Hungarians and to the wage increase of teachers. They get caught playing with Qatar and Morocco, but under the umbrella of the protection of the serialist NGOs, they can continue without consequences where they have left off, precisely to serve foreign interests, and yet again to create ideologically guided conditions for us. All I can say is that I sincerely hope that, after next year's elections, they will not be able to walk in and out of the EP, but will be permanently withdrawn thanks to voters. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.50]]
u2023-06-12-191	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister Judit Varga. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-192	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Next year we will have a favourable constellation, as not only will we have an EU Presidency, but there will be an EP campaign and elections to the European Parliament. We see the extent to which the European Balliberal elite has separated from reality itself, from its own constituents, and all these scandals have brought this huge gap to light. Not to mention the fact that a migration package is now being discussed by both the European Parliament and the Council, which will also reveal the huge difference between the European elite driven by NGOs and the real everyday needs of voters. I can only promise that the national government will always represent the interests of the Hungarian people, no matter what the cost, and we stand by both our migration position and all our other positions, which we have been authorized to do in the elections by our voters. I think we have a good chance of having a kind of conservative turnaround for the 24-year EP elections. All we have to do is campaign. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-193	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Regional Development an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Csaba Latorcai, Deputy Minister, appointed Minister of State to respond to the Minister's absence. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-194	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Since the radio interview of the fallen Prime Minister of the Left, Ferenc Gyurcsány, at the end of March, we know that the Gyurcsány gang in Brussels and in Hungary, stuffed with millions of dollars, are working day and night to prevent the payment of EU funds that are legitimate to Hungary. I think it is perhaps no wonder that Klára Dobrev, Csaba Molnár, Katalin Cseh, Anna Donáth, Attila Ara-Kovács, Márton Gyöngyösi, Sándor Rónai and even István Ujhelyi, also grasping their monthly salary of HUF 5-6 million and, of course, the extras that may be rolling from America, they feel they have a patriotic obligation to prevent the situation of Hungarian people from making it easier, so that the full wage increase of Hungarian teachers can be achieved and earn an average of HUF 800,000 a month. One of the important and hardworking members of this company is the mysterious phantom face of Momentum's earlier billboard campaign, Anna Donáth, who, according to DK's youth department dressed in purple, would lead Hungary on a new path. The last time he ran straight to Věra Jourova for a little friendly discussion, he certainly complained about all his problems. Of course, Commissioner Věra Jourová immediately received and was at her disposal. The question here is how it comes together, ladies and gentlemen, that Anna Donáth, from one side, demands that Věra Jourova be tied to the Hungarian EU funds to raise the wages of teachers, and with the other hand, it keeps preventing Hungary from receiving the funds it rightly deserves. Well, imagine this, fellow Members, that this is how the Hungarian left works: they go to protests at home, speak in Parliament, while in Brussels they feel their patriotic obligation to do everything possible to give Hungarian governments, NGOs, teachers and small and medium-sized enterprises the resources they deserve. I ask the Secretary of State what damage the latest digging of the Hungarian left in terms of EU funds can do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Csaba Latorcai, Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-196	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, It would be difficult to summarize in two minutes the attacks that left-wing parties have launched from home or abroad and what a series of national departures have been launched against Hungary. In Ferenc Gyurcsány's famous radio interview a few weeks ago, the level was also stepped up, because from that point on, they have launched an attack on the European Union's support completely openly, and in this attack there are the leaders of the left-wing European Parliament, who, whether in Hungary, Brussels or Strasbourg, are lynching or negotiating to stop the funds we have. Let me also highlight some points as evidence. For example, Anna Donáth said in March this year that Hungary could no longer receive frozen EU funds this year. A few days ago, he was quite openly demanding that the European Commission add new conditions to the resources for Hungarian people. Katalin Cseh, whose family company has been involved in corruption, threw it into the eyes of the Hungarian people, quite openly: if Viktor Orbán remains in government, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy will not be able to obtain the resources they deserve. But Márton Gyöngyösi also predicted at the end of April that the result of the left-wing minework would be enough, and I would quote, in a few months there will be no money. It is outrageous that these MEPs, these left-wing representatives, work for HUF 5-6 million a month to prevent Hungarians from getting money as a patriotic duty in quotes. But we are fighting regardless, from Hungarian history we have learned that the secret to success is not to give in to 48. We will not yield to our sovereignty! [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-197	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is for Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-198	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Be absolutely clear to everyone: this is not a Brussels charity, this is Hungary's money, these money is for Hungary and Hungarian people. We have a left, which is busy every day, so that Hungarian teachers, Hungarian small businesses, Hungarian municipalities and Hungarian civil society organisations do not get these funds. Just to clarify the formula: we also have an opposition that thinks that it is good for it if it is bad for the country, if it is bad for the teachers, if it is bad for the municipalities. I think this is a shameful attitude, and it is time for the left to finally change its attitude towards European Union resources, and perhaps for once, representing the interests of Hungary, not running to Brussels to report their own country on false accusations and lies, but, for once, on the side of Hungarian people, Hungarian teachers, to go together to Brussels and get what is due to us. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-200	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Let us conclude: Hungary has fulfilled the conditions of the European Commission, so Brussels will have to pay the EU funds due to Hungary, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian businesses in the near future. At the same time, it is clear from the political attacks of the past period that the European Left wants to step up the delay and pressure with the Hungarian dollar left. Honourable Congressman, We see that nothing is sacred to the left, that the left would sacrifice the sovereignty of its own country, so to speak, that it was driven by dollars to achieve its goals. We must not allow ourselves, we must not be deceived, we must not allow Hungary to face new obstacles. That is why we are working unbrokenly to ensure that the Hungarian people, the Hungarian businesses, finally receive the funds they deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-201	Thank you very much. Dear House, It's 5:57 p.m., which brings us to the end of Question Time. Now we're going to move on to the questions. Congressman Ferenc Dávid, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance a question:. Who can stop inflation? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr István Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Fónagy State Secretary, Deputy Minister, answers the question. It is for Congressman Ferenc David. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-202	Dear Secretary of State, Of the numerous problems of the Hungarian economy, inflation is perhaps the most concentrated indication not only of structural problems, but also of the government's incompetence and dilettant crisis management. According to Eurostat, consumer prices were 25,7 per cent higher in January and 24.5 per cent higher in April than in a year before and unfortunately more than 20 per cent in May. At this rate of decline, single-digit inflation, which you promise by the end of the year, will not even be achieved next year. However, it is more tangible not to count a percentage, but to see how much the average Hungarian lost. In spite of the significant increase in nominal average earnings last year, this January's net worth of HUF 350 thousand is worth less than last January's net worth of HUF 30,000. This month's average salary was thus 7-8 percent less than last year's, and this year it will be reduced by another tens of thousands by the inflation estimated at 19 percent on the average this year. [[18.00]] Secretary of State, Hungarian inflation in April and May is also a record record in the EU, so to speak, Hungaricum. The second place in Latvia is only 15 percent, and the other Visegrad and Baltic countries are among 13-15 percent. They are affected by war and sanctions in the same way as us, so we are not talking about war and sanctions inflation, but about inflation in Orbán. Viktor Orbán makes our lives worse every year, and as long as he stays, inflation in Orbán will remain. In order to break inflation in Orbán, the Prime Minister must leave. While you are helpless, the shadow government led by Dobrev Klára is working to increase wages and pensions, not prices. Only a social democrat, disciplined, governor-capable alternative can make us a country of wage and pension increases instead of price increases. Thank you for your patience and attention.
u2023-06-12-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, is given by Deputy Minister János Fónagy, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-204	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Despite the difficult economic situation caused by war and misplaced sanctions, the government is committed to maintaining the premium, protecting families, pensioners and full employment. Our objective is to prevent recession and break inflation to one digit by the end of the year, and to reduce it to around 6 percent next year. I would like to remind you that the left has taken a month's pension from pensioners, a month's wage from teachers, for example, while the Orbán government has returned the one month's pension taken and preserves the real value of pensions. Real income has been increasing significantly for years, and according to data from 22 onwards, real earnings have only increased in Hungary across the European Union, while real wages have decreased in other countries. The results of government measures to break inflation are already visible, and inflation has started to decline. After the 25,7 percent peak in January, 21.5 percent in May, representing a decrease of more than 4 percentage points and a decrease of 2,5 percentage points compared to the last April data. This indicates that the decline in consumer prices is becoming more dynamic and government measures are in place. In order to reduce inflation, mandatory action was launched in the retail trade on 1 June, and the online price monitoring system is also launched in the middle of summer. In addition, every family continues to be supported by HUF 181 thousand thanks to the public utility protection. I hope that these measures are suitable to relieve the daily burden on Hungarian families and pensioners and break sanctioning inflation down to one digit by the end of the year. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-205	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Member Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for Energy:. Why do they tax the drinking water network instead of supporting renovation? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor. Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer you. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is a growing problem around the domestic plumbing network, as expert studies report that the majority of domestic drinking water systems are actually risky, but the government also admits that 45 percent of the domestic water system is even beyond useful life, according to the government. That's right. Indeed, the domestic pipeline system has grown old, and these have to be replaced in the next 20 years, since these systems have been designed for 40-50 years, and this time is almost over. And I'm not just saying this, but also the Századvég Economics Research Centre close to you, which has already shown this in a study in 2018. The situation has probably only deteriorated since then. By the way, according to the Hungarian NGOs, even 20 percent of the water in the ground can flow, which, I think, is unacceptable, because today, when such a heat wave strikes Hungary, the world, water is an invaluable treasure. According to experts, the problem started around 2012 when they neglected to maintain the plumbing systems and then even taxed the water utilities, so they not only spent money on the plumbing system but also took money from the water utilities. Then, by the way, in 2020, this tax was even drastically increased, up to 4.5 times in the case of Budapest, but I would say Szeged, where nearly 600 million HUF of public utility tax is to be paid. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State: when will a comprehensive and scheduled national pipeline exchange programme be launched to ensure the safety of domestic drinking water supply? Why are drinking water services taxed? But if you're gonna do that, then why don't you use this money to rebuild the plumbing? Why don't they reduce the 27 percent tax on water supply so that if the money or resources from it were released, they could also use it for renovations? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2023-06-12-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, [[Dr. Zsófia Koncz's microphone doesn't work.]]
u2023-06-12-209	Wait a minute, because for some reason, his mic's not on. Give me a moving microphone, please. [[A hand microphone is placed in front of Dr. Zsófia Koncz.]] Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Just because we use the important chronology, because you referred to it, I would like to point out that, during your governance between 2009 and 2010, the municipalities were in a very difficult situation, and they were incredibly on the brink of bankruptcy and indebted in 2010, which we consolidated. This is certainly important, and it is also important that the water utility network, the water utility system, was inherited in extremely poor condition in 2010. Over the past ten years, there have been important developments in this sector, such as water supply and sanitation. But for example, it has to be said that we have doubled the number of sewage plants in the last ten years. We agree, of course, that clean drinking water must be provided. I also think that we should be proud that Hungary has enough water, and that the availability of public drinking water supply is 100% on a municipal level. In most parts of the world, this is not self-evident. With the involvement of stakeholders in the sector, a national water utility public service strategy has been developed to provide short- and long-term solutions to the challenges facing the entire water utility sector, since today the modernisation of networks is a very important issue. In November 2020, we created the National Waterworks Ltd. In 2010, nearly 400 organisations provided drinking water services and treatment of sewage treatment in Hungary, and by 2020 it fell to 40. This ensures economies of scale and security of supply. During the next period, the government's main objective is to ensure that all Hungarians continue to have clean and healthy drinking water, in which they plan a significant water utility renewal programme, with a significant amount available for the most critical network exchanges. I think that if the MSZP considers the situation of this water utility sector to be important, then in the future, the legislative proposals on this issue should be supported and voted on, because I believe that this would be consistent. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-211	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. How long will the government be fattened? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who, at his request, will be answered by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, you announced the slimming down of the government apparatus. This looked like 386 Members in Parliament until 2014 and you planned to reduce them to 199. I would like to point out here that Jobbik's then faction supported this, and we still consider this to be the right thing to do. At that time, there were approximately 270 top government leaders. They said the waste was over, you started the wage cuts on your own and pulled the belt. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]] But let's see what was behind it. So by 187, the number of MPs was reduced, and today the number of top executives in government machinery, government apparatus, was increased by about five hundred. [[18.10]] They've done all this by now 15 instead of ten ministries. It's one and a half times the number of ministries that, by the way, education, health care and, let's say, environmental protection haven't yet had a separate wallet. And now they're saying they're going to announce that there's going to be a downsizing of government employees in order to cover the 15 percent wage increase they promised them. Mr. Secretary. It is not for professionals to be sent from the public administration, but for those appointed from party interests to be reduced in order to be able to provide adequate wage arrangements for those working in the public administration. If the number of members of the Party is reduced, no person should be sent out of the state administration, and it may not even be possible that they would be able to raise their wages by 20 or 25 percent. There must be a framework for this, Mr State Secretary, because if there was a 52 percent increase in the salary of the State Secretary last year, then the employees of the state administration also deserve the appropriate wage increase. Mr. Secretary. How long do you intend to fatten up the government machinery, and when will you begin the government slimming down? Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-214	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, So you're demanding less wallets and more wallets at the same time, as you've listed what kind of wallets would be created within the government. But going back to the beginning, we did, and if you look around the Chamber, you can also see from the assembly's equipment that there were nearly 400 Members of Parliament in Hungary, we reduced this to less than 200. We've also reduced the number of ministries. If you look at the internal affairs wallet, there are indeed more areas here: law enforcement, local governments, health care, education, social territory. These were in several wallets separately during the previous period, and we went further, as there were rational steps in government offices, and we also reduced the number of representatives of the local government by half or nearly half, precisely to reduce the number of political elected officials involved in this political direction in Hungary. Exactly because in 2010 we committed to the people that we would use two thirds of us not to have more politicians in Hungary, but rather to look at the international patterns, we could do less, so we did this. And obviously you know that in the municipalities or in the majority of parliamentary posts, elected people and politicians sat in Fidesz-KDNP colors. Fidesz-KDNP was most obviously affected by this. But because we have undertaken this to the electorate, we have made the half-life of the number of politicians in the legislative power at all levels of the state administration, both in executive power and in local governments as our election promise. And if you think that you really need less of your party appointers, you can move very quickly, because Gergely Christmas, who is supported by you, has 42 advisors, you should go to City Hall and show which offices will require Gregory Christmas's political advisors to be acquitted, so that he can run the city without them, with the professionals there, and not with the political advisors. You can choose from 42, Your Honour. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-215	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Minister of Defence a question, "How long will the Covid strike be mandatory in the Defence Service, and how many soldiers have been fired for inoculation?" It's an address. Mr. President Novák, the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha will answer you. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We regret that, absurdly, the Covid vaccination is still mandatory in the military, while it is no longer mandatory in the police force, and it has been abolished in the US army, which you have seen and imitated in many respects. I have protested several times over the past year, both orally and in writing, with the Minister of Defence, but in vain. Even if the government propaganda that the vaccine is working is true, in that case, the inoculations themselves are supposed to be safe from the uninoculated. In addition, according to the Fundamental Law, every Hungarian citizen is obliged to protect the country. If, on the other hand, the uninoculated are considered unfit, could those who do not want to serve in the military simply escape their duty of defence? Although most of the soldiers were forced to choose to take the vaccine on their own in such a way, how many soldiers were discharged because of the refusal to take the vaccine in the midst of a huge shortage of soldiers? And since December 15, 2022, what is this decommissioning number? So far, the Defense Minister has denied me these answers, declaring them to be classified as military secrets, but it would be absurd to keep these numbers and intentions further encrypted. In addition, in the Netherlands, devices used for disinfectant fluids during a coronal virus epidemic are already filled with sunscreen, thus providing free-to-use sunscreen vending machines at hundreds of locations. Instead of the compulsory Covid vaccinations in Hungary, it would be more appropriate to defend the Ministry's leadership with sunscreen at least against further sunburns, although as I see their rampage, such as the mass firing of experienced soldiers over 45 years of age, someone may have had sunstroke before making these decisions. Therefore, I look forward to your substantive answer: why and how long will the Covid vaccination be mandatory in the army, and how many soldiers have been fired for insanity? [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2023-06-12-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Tamás Vargha, Deputy Minister of State, will answer. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-218	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In addition to the protection of the country, the Hungarian Defence Forces are also obliged to guarantee the health and safety of all their service soldiers, thereby protecting the community of those performing the service. Therefore, all those who took the vaccine in mind for the safety of themselves, their comrades and family members, and thus protected and ensured the functioning of the Hungarian Defence Forces, were prepared to defend the country at all times. You have actually asked a written question on this subject, and Minister has also replied in writing. I would like to reiterate that the data on disarmament are CXL of 2021 on defence and the Hungarian Defence Corps. Law 15. According to §2 (1) of the Act, it is not public data, so it cannot be disclosed. But I would like to say that, at the same time as the health emergency has been lifted, the vaccination obligation for soldiers has been lifted, and in view of this, the admission of vaccination and vaccination are currently not a condition for the establishment of a relationship with the Hungarian Defence Agency. A XXI. We are building a modern military force of the century, a powerful army, and for this we need well-trained, trained reserve and professional soldiers in Hungary, young people who do not regard the armed service of the country as a job, so we should express our thanks for the service that our soldiers are doing to protect the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-219	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the energy mini product a question:. Why are they not helping the poorest households using bottled gas? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The government has left out the 600,000 households using non-wired energy. They could have been helped by the official price of 11.5 kilograms of LPG cylinders. But that was typical fidesz fake help. The government did not give any support, but ordered the merchants to give the bottled gas cheaper. The consequence was exactly what was expected of such a measure: Traders ceased to market PB gas cylinders of 11,5 kilograms, while smaller cylinders were sold at market prices. Now Fidesz and the government admit to their own failure when the official price of the 11.5 kg LPG bottle is abolished. It is outrageous that this amendment is being tabled by the regulator, as it is said that the government does not want to help those who use bottled gas. There was a solution, and we suggested it. The government claims in the justification of the bill that the official price of the 11.5 kg LPG bottle is abolished because they favour efficient market operation over administrative intervention. You try one or the other, but the poor man always gets hurt. Please respond: how will competition solve the problem of priceless LPG in a bottled gas market with only a few players and buy gas from the same manufacturer? And what does the government do to make LPG affordable? Thank you for your reply. [[18.20]]
u2023-06-12-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-222	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President...
u2023-06-12-223	I'm gonna need a moving microphone for the secretary of state, and I think this should stay on standby.
u2023-06-12-224	[[It's a portable microphone.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have had the opportunity to talk about this subject several times within the walls of Parliament, and I must say that since 2010 we have been able to achieve important results in the advance of poorer social groups, and it must also be said that the higher the income of a Hungarian citizen before 2010 the greater his incomes have increased, while the income of those in the lower four income categories of the ten has decreased. I think that the Hungarian government's policy of increasing the minimum wage for job creation has contributed to this, but also the policy of reducing the rent itself. The Congressman has put the issue of LPG cylinders on the agenda here. It should be said that, due to the energy prices with sanctions, security of supply risks have also been increased in the market for LPG cylinders. The possibility of withdrawal was also raised among the three private distributors. The government's aim is to keep LPG available to about 500,000 people who use it regularly. Obviously, in the course of the debate, I think that Mr President will be able to express his comments on this, but I would like to draw attention to one thing here, and I would like to ask the Member for his help and support, and for the Group of Dialogue to act a little strongly on this matter. It's usually a question of reducing the rent. Because what we see is that Brussels has been quite strongly attacking the policy of reducing the rent again, which, I think, is a huge help for all Hungarian families and all Hungarian people, and I do not really see the condemning statements of the Dialogue, that they would fight to defend this measure. But I also think that the non-voting of the amending budget itself suggests that there is no importance for the institution of public security. So I would like to ask the Member who, within this Parliament, seems to have this matter in his heart, to speak before his fellow political groups and to represent this position. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-225	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Why are social sector statistics hidden and when do social workers receive a wage increase? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-226	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Members shall be able to carry out their duties properly if they have all the information necessary for their work. Public bodies are obliged to support Members in the performance of their duties and to provide them with the necessary information for their work. This is also their legal duty. Members of Parliament have the right to submit data requests in the public interest to data controllers, but the answer to our data requests submitted this year is only one URL, or it has been found that in the meantime the data controller has become different. At the same time, however, what answers we have been able to get is clear that the demand for social services is increasing, while the number of skilled workers is low and their average age is constantly increasing. We know that the employees of the social sector are underpaid, their wages are far below the average Hungarian wage, as today many workers work in the social sphere with only the amount of the sectoral wage supplement worth more than the amount of the guaranteed minimum wage. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State the following questions. If there is no urgent change, who will take care of those in need? When will a database be created from which all Members of Parliament or anyone can find out who the controller of data concerning the various social sectors is? So when will transparent databases be completed? When can workers in the social sector expect a significant wage increase? What is the government's intention in this regard? How much and when will social workers' earnings increase? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-228	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, He asked me two questions. One is access to data and the second is the wage issue in the social sphere. On the one hand, if you get an answer with a URL in it, you asked for something in Hungarian, honourable Member, which is a public record that you could have found if you had started browsing the Internet and spent half an hour on it. Compared to that, you're using the state apparatus to find the data you're looking for instead of Google. And the other thing is, it's a different data controller. You've been campaigning for a year to make two-thirds laws here in Parliament or to rewrite all the rules of the country, but you don't even know that there's a data in this office or that authority. How do I put this? It is a self-detection on your part rather than a complaint that publicly available data on the Internet, or at least competence rules, are not found. But I have good news for you, and I hope this is not news: the state maintains a full office that you, any representative, any Hungarian citizen, or any citizen of the world speaking in any Hungarian language or part of English, are fully aware of the data of the social sector, education, health care, the economic area, this is called the Central Statistical Office, which continuously publishes its reports. Most of its reports in the social field, for example, are defined on the basis of international standards in relation to deprivation or others. Eurostat is constantly measuring the production of data there using the same calculation method as in any other EU country, so you can be very helpful in doing so. As far as social services are concerned, he says that they may be needed more and more. There's a truth to that. Therefore, instead of HUF 325 billion in 2010, this year we will spend HUF 1263 billion on social services, and instead of HUF 137 thousand, gross earnings are now HUF 400 thousand. That's how we want to keep moving forward. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-229	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Tamás Herczeg, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport: for mowing and other road handling of road-side vegetation? It's an address. Mr Tamás Herczeg has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-230	Mr President, Dear Minister, As a member of the Parliament of Békéscsaba, of course, I often travel between Békéscsaba and Budapest, and because I belong to the Békés 1 constituency, where I am a representative of ten settlements, so during my day-to-day work I travel not only on the M44 or on the M5 by train, partly by car, but mostly by car. Therefore, on the basis of my own experience, I know how important it is that, besides roads, the road bench, trenches, trenches are maintained and maintained, and this is not primarily important for aesthetic beauty, but for road safety and accident prevention. It doesn't matter how transparent the side of the road is before a crossroads. It is also beneficial for farmers if the weeds do not grow old, the weeds do not grow old by the roads. I remember a few years ago, a bunch of donkeys, vetches, horseshoes, and a lot of plants grew old along the roads that then scattered their seeds, and it was not good for farmers either. This year, thank God, a lot of rain fell, and it rained on Medard's day. More than 100 millimeters of precipitation fell in many places in the country, in Békés county also 60-70 millimeters at least. We have been happy to see that this year the road-side areas are well maintained, but since we are only in the middle of June, on the one hand, and on the other hand, there has been a lot of rain, and this is not only favourable to agricultural plants, but also to weeds, so I respectfully ask Minister that in view of this year's rainy weather, Magyar Közút Nonprofit Zrt. for mulching and other road handling of road-side vegetation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.30]]
u2023-06-12-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-232	Mr President, Dear House of Representatives, I would like to begin by saying that I think that perhaps it is not unfounded, as an individual Member of Parliament who has been a mayor for twenty years and ten years, that the issue of order or the issue of country order is perhaps the most concerned of our fellow voters, as I have experienced. Therefore, my plan and intention for the Hungarian Road, and even my political programme as a minister, are to give all the support to enable it to perform this task in a normal way, and to significantly reduce the difference between Austria and Hungary in this respect. The Hungarian Road manages 31,000 kilometres. Three times in the last 12 years, we have had the opportunity to renovate the road network in accordance with expectations and legislation. At 31,000 kilometers, 200 million square meters of green surface would need to be maintained and road edges clipped. That means 30,000 football fields in particular. Despite raining above the annual precipitation average, the Hungarian Road started with great momentum, 700 employees perform it continuously in two shifts, with about 300 machines. Originally, the government planned HUF 8 billion in Hungary for mowing the 21,000 kilometres of secondary and lower roads. However, this will not be enough, and I would like to double this and therefore increase the resources available. This also means precise painting of road signs. And what is at least as important, 74,000 hours of garbage collection was carried out by the employees of the Hungarian Public Road, and they collected the waste that our fellow voters threw away. That took a lot of time, money, and energy from the roadblocking. So if the voters didn't litter, there'd be more money left to mess around in time, in money, in energy. I think we should still get used to it, and the country needs a large cleaning and a large repair to ensure that, alongside the national road network, there is an accuracy, precise order, and that order is significantly increased throughout the country. I think it's as important as building new roads. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-233	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Béla Mihálffy, representative of KDNP, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: "Does the Government plan to launch the official priced Firewood programme again this winter? It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Minister of State, will answer you. Congressman Béla Mihalffy has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Russian-Ukrainian war and the misguided, meaningless sanctions in Brussels have caused an extraordinary energy crisis throughout Europe. The government has not been idle in this difficult economic situation, but has been working to help families, and has constantly introduced measures to counterbalance the energy and gas crisis and to sustain the reduction of the overhead. Due to the significantly increased energy prices, the possibility of heating where possible with wood instead of gas had to be created. Therefore, at the end of September last year, the government announced the official priced firewood programme, which was of great interest. Firewood produced by public forestry farms was available at a uniform price, up to 10 cubic metres per household at 152 points of sale in the country. During the logging period, forestry continuously complied with the orders of the population. There were several forest farms where demand exceeded local production capacity, where logging was solved by redeployment and increased production capacity, and therefore sufficient firewood from sustainable farming was available to the country for the heating period. I would also like to mention that, in addition to the official priced firewood programme, the government has also provided free firewood for those in need of small settlements under the social firewood programme. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian families pay the cheapest energy prices in the European Union, even in the midst of the penalty energy price increases, thanks to the measures that have been maintained since 2013. Thanks to the firewood program, many families survived colder winter days. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how he evaluates the firewood programme. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, State Secretary. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-236	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, it is as you mentioned in your first thoughts that the Russian-Ukrainian war and the sanctions in Brussels caused an energy crisis throughout Europe, so the government decided on 17 September 2022 to launch a firewood programme, primarily aimed at reducing the energy burden on rurals using firewood. One of the advantages of the firewood programme is that the price of the firewood was fixed for the state forestry companies. 10 cubic meters of firewood can be purchased at a fixed price for an average family house during the heating season should be sufficient. The quantity determined by the government allows this quantity to now be available to virtually all claimants. On the other hand, the maximum price for firewood application was not terminated on 15 April, but closed. Until then, citizens have paid 1 million 253,000 cubic meters of firewood at 152 sales locations. A total of 170,000 families benefited from this, with an average of 7.3 cubic metres [7.3 m] of wood per household. General experience is that most of the claimants did not settle for the past heating season, but usually bought the firewood for the next heating season. I believe that the firewood programme has been extremely successful and successful even to this day. As this programme ends on 31 August 2023, we also show that, based on the positive experience of the past period, the firewood programme was an important element in the management of the energy crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-237	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. Has the Orbán government really given up EU funds? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, You will hear the answer from Deputy Minister János Fónagy, Secretary of State. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It would be a joke, what the Minister of Economic Development said the other day. I quote literally: the Hungarian economy must move to life without EU funds. Let's hope the Minister was joking, though it would be a joke. A confession means nothing less than the Orbán government letting us lose the money he's been telling us he owes us. It is also worth noting that EU money does not automatically come. It is given to countries where the government and associated buddies do not steal, and where there is democracy and a rule of law. The Orbán government does not meet any of the conditions. In the Orbán government, this is also confirmed by the EU's Fraud Office, and we have the highest number of abuses. Hungary is no longer a free and non-democratic country, according to the European Union, Hungary is not, according to the European Union, a rule of law. At the same time, Martin Nagy's sentence means that the law required by the EU, which at least partially restores democracy, will not be submitted by the government, let alone accepted by the Parliament. So don't let the money come, let the country be ruined, if the cost of rocking the regime of the Orbán dictatorship. With the money that the Orbán government had given up, education, health care, transport could have been restored, village and city development. This sentence also means that according to the Orbán government, Tibor Navracsics' efforts for EU money were in vain, if at all. This sentence means that not only the Czechs, the Poles, the Slovaks, but also the Bulgarians will prevent us from making economic progress. This sentence means that no investments will be made, forints will remain weak, inflation in Orbán will remain, and wages will be worth less and less. The only solution is Klára Dobrev and the shadow government, which will increase not only wages but also pensions, unlike prices. Thank you for your attention and for your reply. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Deputy Minister János Fónagy, Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[18.40]]
u2023-06-12-240	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You're so passionate about this shadow government that when you step out into the light, it blinds you a little bit. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And that's why they may not see the past clearly. Hungary... for the first time, whether it walks or doesn't walk. In 31 negotiating chapters before accession to the EU, Hungary opened its markets in hundreds of points, for hundreds of billions of dollars it sacrificed its economy in the hope of becoming a member of a community that we imagined 19 years ago. Left-wing governments have made an effort to do so by selling monopoly power plants, selling, privatizing the retail network, agriculture to most Westerners, and I can name it for a long time. What is meant by Minister Martin Nagy's statement is that, on the basis of everything I have said, I believe that the EU funds set out by common principles do belong to Hungary. This does not mean that Márton Nagy's declaration that Hungary will sooner or later become a net contributor, and therefore we will operate without net EU funds... I believe that this is true, because I think that you too hope, or I would very much like to believe that they hope that in a few years, Hungary will be able to function successfully as a net contributor without EU funds. I'm asking for your help and your support, not for these [[The president's ringing the bell.]] our current options are constantly being hampered. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-241	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 6:41 p.m., and we're done with the questions. We're going to take a two-minute technical break, and we're going to continue our work from there with debate. (Sunning: 18.41 18.43 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2023-06-12-242	Ladies and gentlemen, After a little technical break, we'll continue our work. The Commission's reports on the public works scheme and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/3677. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that T/3677 was discussed at the Legislative Committee meeting on 8 June 2023. Bill No. 1 on the order of public investment. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. pursuant to Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 26 votes to six, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill on the House's table is to adjust the development to the budget, to put the more for less, to prevent unnecessary or unsustainable investments from taking place. Investments need to be planned and built more rationally and economically sustainable investments should be made in order to achieve long-term energy efficiency and cost optimisation. It is important to emphasise that it will enable stronger market protection and ensure that environmental aspects and sustainability and operational aspects are implemented throughout the life cycle of the investment. On the basis of the draft law, the Government will decide on a new mechanism for public works. The implementation of public works is based on the Public Works Framework Programme, which is based on policy sectoral concepts and sectoral investment plans. The first public investment framework programme to be adopted on the basis of the bill is the programming period until 31 December 2035. In line with the need to amend the legislative procedure, due to the overall changes in the conditions for the provision of public procurement expertise in public procurement procedures, it is appropriate to provide for a transitional provision to prepare for the application of the new regulation in respect of certain public procurement matters. According to the proposed amendment, by 30 June 2026 the public procurement bodies defined in the Government Decree may, in their procurement procedures for supplies or services, involve an accredited public procurement consultant responsible for the rules in force on the day before the entry into force of the bill. The new State Investment Act puts the system of public works on a new footing and unifies the system of public works, creates a new opportunity for the representatives of the profession, and ultimately opens a new chapter in the creation of a stronger Hungary, which is closer to the most developed countries in the European Union. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now ask Minister John Lazarus, as rapporteur, that he would like to speak. [[John Lazarus ascends to speak.]] Yeah. Before I give you the floor, I would like to inform you, Minister, that you have a total time frame of 15 minutes for your current speech, the speech and the closing speech that will be held later in the debate. Accordingly, Minister János Lázár has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-245	Thank you very much. Dear House of Representatives, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In view of the active involvement of my fellow opposition Members in Parliament's work, I think that I will use their patience in a moderate manner and try to fulfil the three tasks together. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members who participated in the preparation of the law, either at the parliamentary stage or in the parliamentary debate, for their contribution to this, with their work and with their ideas and proposals, that is to say, the success of the law. T/3677. I submitted the bill on behalf of the Government on 19 April, and the general parliamentary debate started on 23 May, while continuing discussions with the European Commission in order to inform the European Commission partly in the interest of prior consultation, partly if necessary, to make changes before the moment of adoption in order to comply with European Union law. The first stage of consultation with the European Commission has been completed and the Commission has not made any substantive comments at this stage. The European Commission has indicated through the representatives of Hungary that it intends to monitor practical application and thus this obstacle does not exist before the adoption of Parliament. I would like to point out that, in our conviction, what the European Commission's position so far has in no way contradicted is the adoption of the law in any European Union law or norm. I would not like to open again the principle question or the debate in principle that we have already carried out here, or we have begun the right and competence of the executive power of the Hungarian State to invest in the interests of the state, for the benefit of the public. [[18.50]] I am convinced that this alone means a mandate by adopting the budget law, since every year the annual budget law includes annual investment appropriations for all ministries, for all wallets. In addition to Parliament, the executive authority could use government regulations to create its own rules of play, as it did before, for 32 years. It gives Parliament a very important authority to control the possibility of adopting the law and presents it well, including legislative power in one of the important tasks of the executive power, the development of the state, the building of the country, that we are actually putting two laws before Parliament. One of them sets a new course for public investment, as my fellow Member Bona said, and as the proposal reveals. Unfortunately, not together and not at the same time, but because of the delay in the negotiations, the legislation on Hungarian architecture will be presented separately, but the two together will define the framework for how and in what way and in what form it will be possible to invest in Hungary. My fellow Members held a debate on centralisation decentralisation. In addition to the review of the minutes, the substantive speeches of the opposition colleagues concerned the announcement that centralization was the most serious issue, and even a number of the municipal authorities in the pro-government factions heard their voices, represented their interests as to the extent to which this concentration would make investments effective or how much better. I am convinced that less resources can be built better if investment is driven by a professional management, a professional hand, but we have negotiated with local government associations. I also proposed a five-point agreement to Mr. Mayor of Christmas; on the one hand, that the State Investment Stakeholder Council should be a member of the Association of City with County Rights, the National Association of Municipal Governments, the Municipality of Budapest, the Ministry of Construction and Transport and the municipality in which the state investment takes place. All areas of Hungary are divided into municipal and municipal territorial powers, so all investments are carried out in the territory of every local government, and this municipality should be a consortial partner of the Hungarian State. If the municipality believes that it is ready and capable of carrying out the public investment, then it can turn to the Ministry. If the Ministry does not take over the implementation of the investment within 15 days, then the implementation of the investment is for the municipality. The ownership of the investment in the territory of the municipality or the ownership of the property, which is to be carried out by the State on a temporary basis, does not allow the State to carry out such actions or legal action, I recommended as a partner and as a cooperation with the relevant public investment in order to carry it out jointly with the regionally competent municipality. I have the impression that interest representatives and the City Council have also been open to these initiatives. I would like to report to Parliament that it has been discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Sustainable Development, the Committee on Legislative Affairs, and a total of 12 amendments have been tabled. I regret that this very important topic was addressed to my fellow Members of the opposition, Mr Sándor Szabó, my fellow Member, who was the only one who praised him for making a motion for individual Members of Parliament, but it was not important for the others to present it in addition to the large political lounges, although I asked my fellow Members here in my speech to contribute to the possible correction or improvement of the law by their knowledge, experience and opinion. My fellow Member Zoltán Bóna mentioned that in some respects we have made exceptions, and that is where my comment on the entry into force will be linked. In short, I would therefore like to frame what the order of state investments and the law on Hungarian architecture determine what can be built in Hungary. The structure of the new system is based on the need to evaluate the results so far, or even shortcomings and errors, and beyond that, the spirit of the whole law is based on the enforcement of sovereignty and self-determination. It is important to rethink investment in its entirety: what we build, where we build, what we build, and how we build, how we build them, with whom and with what help, with which materials we will make this happen. I think that we should invest where this is most necessary, this is the spirit of the law, and it is also very important that national traditions, the spirit of the place, and the protection of civil good taste are enforced for all public investments. From Hungarian raw materials, Hungarian workers, Hungarian professionals, Hungarian expertise and Hungarian knowledge are realized for the Hungarian benefit, so this is a patriotic bill, which aims to favour Hungarian economic operators. For the first time in the state investment legislation, the sustainability aspect appears in two respects: on the one hand, in an ecological and economic sense, on the other hand, the importance of nature conservation, the state regulation of the relationship between the built environment and nature with regard to public investment, and, on the other hand, the question of sustainability is that what we build, we and the futures after us, are able to operate and operate it at least as important as the reality of the construction itself. The new investment procedure will make it transparent for ten years before the legislative authority what the executive power intends to achieve in which sector. For 106 single electoral districts, the next six months will be crucial in this respect, as public investments in individual districts will have to be decided in this six-month period, and in this list they will be valid, whether it be school, kindergarten, hospital restoration, police building, fire department, district office. They will now decide for ten years what this government intends to accomplish in the confidence of the electorate. I would also like to say that, yes, it is one-handed investment, with a central and strong hand to conduct investment, but, of course, there is democratic legitimacy, not just any decision, because I am not the one making the decision, but the sectoral ministers and the government as a whole make a board decision. Moreover, we are absolutely sure that we will strive to enforce the aspects of modernity and to enforce patriotism. The discussions were held twice: before the law was submitted, we had consulted 25 organisations and considered 900 proposals; as part of the submission of the law, the rapporteur considered a thousand proposals and came before Parliament, where there were further proposals to consider. I would like to note here that there is an open question about the entry into force of the law, which is why I asked the Parliament today not to have a final vote on the proposal tomorrow, which the Parliament will postpone, with any consequences. The reason for this is that the submission, negotiation and entry into force of the two laws have been split into two pieces, which is why there are legal parts that require a transitional period to enter into force. So the new bill on the order of public investments will enter into force sooner than the bill on Hungarian architecture, and what we cannot yet regulate in the bill on Hungarian architecture, I propose to the Parliament that it be kept in force temporarily. This is a proposal of a legal nature, but the settlement of this is, I think, essential. Thanking once again my fellow Members for their participation in the debate, I would like to thank those Members who have found this proposal suitable for negotiation, suitable for discussion and, as I hope, for their acceptance. In the spring session, I would like to submit to Parliament the legal document on Hungarian architecture, which I would like the Parliament to put on the agenda during the autumn session, and discuss it thoroughly. So we're going to submit it now, we're going to discuss it in the fall, and we're going to have an opportunity to consider the legislation and proposals it contains in the summer. Mr President, I have tried not to abuse your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-246	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that you have used 10 minutes 13 seconds of your 15-minute frame, so you will have 4 minutes 47 seconds to speak and to say the closing word. Dear House, The designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, so I now give the floor to Lóránt László Keresztes, who will present the minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development for the debate in a three-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-247	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, I have been given new information, and I will try to respond to it; it may be at the expense of the time frame of the faction, but I think it is important that we get it on the record and we can talk about it. Indeed, I did not participate in the general debate, but I myself was informed of the minutes, I read through what was said, and accordingly I prepared for the debate in the Committee on Sustainable Development. I feel that there is an opportunity for a very comprehensive, rather meaningful debate, and I have also appreciated this positively. I have also indicated to Deputy Minister Csepreghy that it is important for me to think that it is still possible to have meaningful policy debates at times, and that this is important even if there is a fundamental difference of opinion. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I also agreed at the committee meeting that, indeed, as Deputy Minister said there, there was a legislative imperative, so it was certainly justified that such legislation had come before the Parliament, but at the same time I thought it might be a little too ambitious that there was hope for a complete political consensus here on the submission of the law, and I justified that, and other opposition representatives spoke at the meeting. [[19.00]] It was also positive that he was a self-critical Deputy Minister in relation to the investment policy for the period after 2010, and I was self-critical, sorry, not self-critical, but critical of the investment policy for the period before 2010. So in this, we can say, we agree that there have been a lot of mistakes made by the governments before 2010 and after 2010. I drew attention to the fact that there is a lot of things that we agree on in terms of the use of terms, such as civic good taste, patriotism, the enforcement of green aspects, and the rest, unfortunately, we also had to draw attention to the fact that these concepts have been spoken many times, although this value judgment was published at the level of the texts, but there was no guarantee of its concrete implementation in the text of the bill. In any case, I find it a joyful information, a change, that, for example, the Ministry has withdrawn or corrected a lot of things compared to the TÖOSZ opinion, but at the same time I feel that the argument or counterpoint that the system is too centralised remains. Although the municipalities will indeed have the opportunity to keep these projects within their own management, the Ministry will nevertheless make this decision, so the municipalities will not be able to decide that the investment they partially finance will be carried out under their control or under government control. So this is definitely the direction of centralization. We also see as a problem that there are important comments on the use of concepts, for example, to enforce sustainability aspects, but there are no substantial professional players in the various consultative bodies who would have such competences, so once again we do not see guarantees in the text. All in all, that is all I wanted to say, and I would like to continue a little further, Mr President, with the time frame of the faction.
u2023-06-12-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll give you the floor first. [[A moment's pause.]] László László the Crusade to Lóránt. I thought it would be different, but then it's up to you, Congressman. Go on.
u2023-06-12-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we do not see a guarantee here that a person capable of representing environmental aspects in a competent manner could participate in these bodies in a meaningful way and would apply these criteria. I also thought this was a concern at the meeting because we can see that an investment policy is still being implemented, or a decision-making mechanism, just as an example, through which, for example, twice last year, a building permit was granted through the Government Office for investment that would have destroyed the high shore of Balaton, the High Coast of Algain. I take this as an example, which I have already talked about, because I think that if this can be achieved in a system, that a multimillion-year geological formation, a unique natural formation, which is a national symbol, so to speak, can be issued a building permit that is about the dominating of entrepreneurs with a higher integration percentage in a plot, that means that this government or this system is very far from achieving patriotism on the one hand, on the other hand, and investment policies that promote and recognise sustainability aspects, on the other. That is why it would be very important to have substantial guarantees in this system. There are different consultative bodies, but we see that the decisive word will still be the Minister's, so that decisions can be taken in these consultation bodies with the agreement of the Minister. It is not clear what rights they will have if the various associations of local governments are involved. The most serious problem and our most important criticism with regard to this law is, in particular, that, simplifying it, the Minister can practically exempt the investment in question from the enforcement of this law. We believe that it is also contrary to the spirit of the law, that practically a ministerial decision can be made to prevent this law from applying to a given investment. That's definitely a concern. Allow me, Minister, if you have already mentioned in your introduction that certain investments must be stopped, I need to think about what is needed to ask you a question, taking advantage of your presence here. A few days ago, we learned that a very large number of you have cancelled or stopped investments. Allow me to ask you about some of the important investments of my narrower Patriot. For example, it is the situation of the Danube Bridge in Mohács and its fate that I would be very interested in, I think everyone in Baranya, but not only in Baranya. What, in particular, will be the fate of this Danube Bridge? I don't have to worry about how many and how many government promises have been made to make this happen. What exactly does this decision that you have made now mean, when will it be possible to cross the Danube for road traffic? It also included an extension of the M60 motorway to Szigetvár. Once again, I do not want to fire such cheap horse-zunges as when Prime Minister has promised several times that it will come true. I think that it would be extremely important for Baranya County and Somogy County to have a motorway connection in that direction and to allow that to happen. So it's very, very important that you clear up what's going to happen to these important investments. Let me ask you one last question if I still have time. In the course of the debate, patriotism and patriotic investment policy were also raised in the Committee on Sustainable Development. At the time, I suggested to Deputy Minister Csepreghy that, in order to achieve a patriot investment policy, a patriot government, patriot economic policy, in principle, would have to be implemented. For example, this bill allows such a huge investment, such as the Budapest-Belgrád railway development, to be excluded from the scope of the law, so this should be done independently. I think that this is the most powerful example to show that the kind of patriot economic policy, the opposite or important element of which could be a patriot investment policy, does not necessarily happen. Here, with the intention of delivering mass products in the Far East, the Hungarian government is practically using taxpayers' money to deliver an infrastructural development whose technical content is highly debatable, although it is encrypted, we can only see the amounts and costs, but at the same time it is not even clear that there will be a meaningful route to the port of Pyreus after the development. There are many elements of this phased investment that are not guaranteed to be built, there is no guarantee of exploitation from the Chinese side, and we can also see that China is increasingly considering the port of Trieste, which is competing with the port of Pyreus, as a kind of development destination. So how can a kind of long-term, ten-year planning be realized, which you have talked about, or the Deputy Minister, when such a fundamental investment decision, defining the future of Hungary and the nation for many, many years and decades, does not show with the best spirit the kind of patriot approach, nor can the kind of patriot national economic policy direction be defined to try to satisfy the most important needs based on domestic production or international cooperation and not by importing mass products from a distance? Not to mention that we don't really see your guarantee, what the fate of V0 will be, for example, and even if the Budapest-Belgrád railway development is realized, once a major freight transport task is completed, how can this huge amount of goods be transferred to the Danube, so to speak. Thank you very much, if I can get some answers to some of my questions in the next few minutes. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2023-06-12-250	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade. The next speaker is Mr Sándor Szabó, MSZP.
u2023-06-12-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, He was not already here in the general debate, he had to leave when, I have to say to you, I praised the preparatory work that marked this bill, because perhaps we can say that one of the most prepared legislative proposals has come before the House, and it has indeed been preceded by a lot of negotiations. It can be said that it was exemplary, since such proposals, in terms of such serious laws, were not typical during the previous period. In fact, in the general debate, the main issue of centralisation and decentralisation was the biggest debate between my pro-government and opposition colleagues, I think. In fact, this is what my amendment was about, because we all take note that if there is less resources, then obviously it must be distributed more concentratedly, and we need to be more careful on how and how to use it more effectively, and to stay on the basis of the principle, as Minister said, if I remember correctly. However, I say that when the municipalities happen to be talking about small municipalities, the municipality of cities with county rights or even the municipality of Budapest earlier, a well-functioning investment has been carried out, managed, whether it be public investments or investments in the European Union, why not be among the exceptions. I think that when the law sets the exceptions, such as national governments or trust foundations, it is a little incomprehensible and unacceptable for me that those municipalities, from small ones to capital, should not be among the exceptions. [[19.10]] This is what it is for me or for us, because if it is between decentralisation and centralisation, then in this sense I say that we should be decentralised on this issue, and that the municipalities which have performed these tasks effectively in the past should, once again, be subject to this law, whether it be about ordinary public investments or public investments that are also affected by EU funds. My amendment concerned this. I fully appreciate the fact that, by the way, during the debate in the committees, the law has changed a little, because the Minister has also spoken about the five-point proposal, which brings investment itself a little closer to the local authorities, but this is still not the kind of amendment that I think could be made with regard to the municipalities. Indeed, it remains in this, as Mr Kereszt said, the conceptual difference, and I am obviously trying to understand the government's position that the allocation of resources in terms of scarce resources should be much more concentrated. I would like to ask the Minister that, if he really is going to follow the investments through in the future, even if my amending proposal is not accepted, I would ask you as a wallet that the municipalities in which the funds were used correctly and effectively should be able to do so in the future. Thank you.
u2023-06-12-252	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár and he will use the timeframe of Fidesz.
u2023-06-12-253	Fidesz has quite a time frame, courtesy of the voters. Mr President, I do not want to abuse the patience of this House or of my fellow Members, but I think that my fellow Members from the opposition benches, who have been honoured to take part in the debate against the missing ones, would like to respond immediately. I would like to start by saying that it could be a very important debate in principle, whether the investments that we have placed under the law will be subject to more than 50 per cent of the public budget, so that they are part of the state budget, the state can apply rules to those, regardless of who the beneficiaries are. My position is, even in the case of churches, foundations and all kinds of entities, that he can employ me. So I insist within the government that if we support cross-border organisations, if we provide construction aid to churches for an investment or a programme, or if the state grants aid to a foundation, then apply these criteria, such as the public procurement aspect, that an offer is not an offer and that a procurement procedure with a single tender result cannot be announced. So in my view, the origin of money, i.e. its origin from the state budget, determines how it can be used, and the state has the right to make provision for it. There are those who argue about this, basically taking a decision on this from other constitutional principles. However, this proposal contains rules that are also applicable to those not covered by the law or contracts, so if the State grants aid under a contract, then these conditions must be enforced in the contract or, for example, an own legal regime for defence investments, which are clearly not subject to any ordinary law in relation to critical infrastructure development. In relation to the municipalities, I can say this: there is a material being prepared in my ministry about what was the lesson of the development of the last 12 years. I was the mayor at both ends of the stick, as I mentioned earlier, and I was also the Minister for Investment, and I am. I can tell you that experiences are mixed. In some cases, the state has not acted as it should have done, or could have been, in my hope the Szekszárds will be convinced of how the municipality and the State can act, what is the difference, and some where the municipality has not acted as it should or could have done. Overall, I think it is impossible to say an average rule, except for the source of the money. It can be said that it is safe and correct to say that there were a number of Hungarian municipalities that carried out the investment fairly, by deadline, in a manner appropriate to the objectives of the state and the community, or in a way appropriate to the objectives of the European Commission. This is why a passage into the last version of the law that will be put to the vote will not, by the way, hide it, on the basis of the request and proposal of the Mayor of Christmas that the portfolio may agree with the municipality in terms of investments from European Union funds that it will or will not be carried out. I have no intention of reducing all capacity to invest in local governments and putting them in public interest. I'm not going to do anything like that. On the one hand, I suggested the opposite to the government, but let us not tie this to a summary as proposed by my fellow Member Szabó, so let us not make it dependent on the size of the local government or tie it to a summary rather than to a suitability. There are small municipalities that do not undertake, there are small municipalities, which, on the basis of size, may not be suitable, and there are small municipalities that are excellent at implementing, as there are large municipalities that have not been able to carry out the investment despite having county-righted urban status and having the capacity to implement it. So I think that we do need to look at individual implementation skills, and that is what we need to make a decision on. However, I would like to say that the state is bound by the same authorisation procedure, I say to Mr Keresztes, so the building permit can be challenged in court. There is a huge legitimacy of applicants in Hungary today, and public investments are constantly stalled on the basis of the decision of the courts. This type of investment in Lake Balaton, all of which are subject to an environmental authorisation procedure where the court has suspended the permit or has not implemented it, or has ordered the Government Office to proceed with a new authorisation procedure. So, whatever highlight, any exception, if at all, this narrowing down is the purpose of the law, and we are also narrowing down the scope of exceptions in this law and then also in the construction law. Any exception shall not be exempted from the review of the authorisation by the court in Hungary in accordance with strict EU environmental and other rules. So I don't see a huge risk in this, as many people think, because even if an investment from the government office receives the building permit, it is now regularly and regularly challenged before the courts, and the judgments of the courts, if someone processes it back ten years, then these court judgments are partly fair, most of the cases are fair, and I think they stand the test of time. So I think that the protection of the law or the provision of rights by the courts can be a sufficient guarantee. This does not mean that enforcement rules, or the government's ability to implement or authorise them, could not be strengthened. That is what our proposal, the bill, is all about, so that this is better organised. As regards the economic policy of the Hungarian patriot. The construction sector is one of the few sectors where patriotism is still possible. In many segments of the Hungarian economy, this can only be achieved to a lesser extent. When the automotive industry is installed in Hungary, the automotive installation will not have patriotic economic consequences, because in the case of automotive companies, we cannot be car manufacturers, we can only participate in a supply chain. But in the construction sector, four-fifths of the 28 thousand billion public investment with 350 thousand Hungarian employees was built in Hungary in the last 12 years by Hungarians; in the construction of the building, it was possible to force foreigners out of Hungary. What we can say after 12 years of governance is that construction is a good example that Hungarian businesses today are ready and able to achieve everything. There is no construction in Hungary that is the most complex railway construction, bridge construction, road construction, high construction, athletic stadium or Puskás Arena capable of organizing the World Championship, which cannot be implemented by a Hungarian company. This is why their interests need to be protected against breaking and entering Chinese construction companies or Turkish construction companies. Building materials are another issue, because we use 80% of foreign building materials in Hungary, which is suitable for a number of debates. That is why we say that Hungarians should benefit primarily from the work of Hungarians. If we took an example of the preparation of investments, which I would not normally do, but if you mentioned that if there was an investment with Chinese money in Hungary, unlike other countries, we were able to provide opportunities for Hungarian entrepreneurs in this investment, while at the other stage of the investment, in Serbia, Serbian businesses were given much smaller and smaller opportunities. So Hungary was the country that was able and willing to enforce Hungarian economic interest within the framework of the Chinese financing model. [[19.20]] I think that this bill on the order of public investment, for example, will mean, for my wallet, which will plan transport investments for ten years, a more thorough preparation, more thoughtful planning, greater precision and sustainability aspects. Now we can start the construction of the V0 railway bypass, the preparation of which will take at least ten years; only the design will take five years, the construction will take long years to connect Győr, Székesfehérvár, Dunaújváros and Kecskemét. The preparation of such a project is a ten-year task, and it may be more than ten years, let's say, 12-14 years. It is only then that large investments can be planned, the construction of a Budapest-Debrecen-Kolozsvár expressway is a decade's work, it can only be done in calm conditions with a normal planning mandate. If the government is in haste, if there is no consistency in investment policy, there is no consistency, there is a rush, then these investments cannot be carried out well, precisely, efficiently, of course at the right price, with recovery calculations. So what I can say is that this law will give you greater security for the quality you claim, the achievement of the goals, the return on social return, and the economic return. I don't know, in this house it still mattered when it mattered, when I got in here, I can say that as a minister, taking seriously the institution of ministerial responsibility from the April 48 laws, I will assert that the municipalities, which did excellent work, did well, get the opportunity to invest now and in the future. I can promise this in front of Parliament, in the protocol and in the general public, and I am also trying to create institutional guarantees for this, with agreements with the municipalities, and also in the Stakeholder Council, where the decision is made by a four fifths majority with the participation of the participants. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor in presidential power, and I do not wish to speak again in this debate. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-254	Thank you very much, Minister Lazarus. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Then I consider that Minister Lazarus has also kept his end of the debate. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. Decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain transport laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/4028. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Bóna, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-06-12-255	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4028 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 43 of the House Rule. By 27 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table contains all the amendments it deems necessary for the purposes of EU harmonisation and for the profession and the transport industry, so that a well-functioning transport and investment sector in Hungary can serve economic policy objectives and the fulfilment of tasks related to the mobility needs of the population and economic operators. The amendment to the Road Transport Act clarifies certain rules concerning workers involved in road transport, thus defining the concept of a working centre for the driver's general residence as a place of work. In addition, on the basis of experience gained during the application of the law, it clarifies the provisions on the posting of the driver and transposes the new EU rules on the use of vehicles rented without a driver for the carriage of goods by road into Hungarian legislation. The amendment of the Rail Transport Act establishes the transfer link between the different modes of transport, the legal framework for the operation of transport facilities providing increased passenger comfort services, i.e. intermodal nodes. By supplementing the legislation, the operation of infrastructure management companies will be complemented by the operation of the railway station, which is part of the intermodal nodes, and of the closely related facilities to facilitate Community transport and of the properties carrying them. The proposal thus contributes to the improvement of the quality of Community transport services, providing an adequate alternative to individual motorised modes of transport, thereby contributing to reducing emissions and meeting climate protection and environmental objectives. In accordance with the amendment made during the procedure of the Legislative Committee, it is necessary to delete the amount of the fee for the person charged for the service of a taxi transport operator from the regulation of the draft amendment to the obligation to provide data management. The so-called manual and ex post recording of this content, as well as double reporting, would be a serious burden for transport operators. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-256	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Bóna. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Bálint Nagy, Secretary of State, if he would like to speak now. [[On the mark of Bálint Nagy:]] It says yes. I remind you that you have a 15-minute time frame, and what you're not using right now, you can use at the end. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-06-12-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The Ministry of Construction and Transport, which was established in a new portfolio structure as of 1 December 2022, prepared its bill in a new perspective, summing up legislative tasks in the second half of 2022 and in relation to the transport sector in the first half of 2023. The bill proposed to amend 15 laws closely linked to the transport sector. The bill contains all the amendments it considers necessary for the purposes of EU harmonisation and for the profession and the transport industry, so that a well-functioning transport and investment sector in Hungary can serve the objectives of economic policy and fulfil the tasks related to the mobility needs of the population and economic operators. Ladies and gentlemen, Our bill includes the transposition of new EU rules into Hungarian legislation, as well as technical amendments and clarifications. A significant part of the amendments are intended to improve road safety. It also clarifies and creates the legal framework for the operation of intermodal nodes. The proposal contributes to the development of the quality of Community transport services, providing an adequate alternative to individual motorised modes of transport, thereby contributing to reducing emissions and meeting climate protection and environmental objectives. The proposal also introduces the concept of personal travel rights and the concept of transport electronic identification, taking into account the fact that the county and the county are fairly popular. Our proposal also provides a legal framework for the recycling and use of construction and demolition material, which is still suitable for installation, resulting from construction works on local and national roads and on national and regional railway lines, such as bicycle roads. The proposed amendment thus reduces waste generation and contributes to cost-effective investment. The amendments submitted to the Legislative Committee were essentially technical amendments, supported by the committee and also by the national government. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Thank you, everyone, for the T/4028. I would like to ask you to support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-258	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bálint the Great. He used two minutes and 44 seconds. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2023-06-12-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I just have a few questions. It is part of the proposal to abolish national transport operators. It was possible to debate the plan that the Secretary of State Vitézy cherished, but at the same time it must be confirmed that these aspects, which we have heard, will in principle be able to take place in order to allow more room for public transport than for individual transport, if this will have a national, feasible concept in which transport associations will indeed play a major role. [[19.30]] We are basically thinking of regional transport associations, in which we would also play a role for the elected municipalities. Obviously, we have proposed a completely different funding system many years ago, but we do not yet see such a comprehensive reform plan for the Community's transport system. What do you know about the government's future intentions? I have one more specific question. On several occasions, in the time of Minister Palkovics, we talked about the fact that earlier Minister Palkovics had been given a governmental task of developing a system of public support for local public transport. Then a decision was taken, a government decision here in the context of the Covid closures, which was contrary to the intention of completely withdrawing the state's support for local public transport outside Budapest. So now, outside Budapest, cities need to solve the public transport system from their own resources, and I think it can be seen that even the most capitalised, powerful, and large cities are not able to fully finance this task on their own in the long term. Does the government intend to grant some kind of state aid to rural cities for the maintenance of local public transport? My last question, which was also the subject of the recurring debate over recent years, is the government's intention to try to nationalise six or seven transport companies that are still municipal, perhaps nationwide, in some way, or to respect the fact that the cities in which such companies operate are, by the way, thinking of Debrecen or another example of Pécs, can keep these companies, but they would change the order of state aid in such a way that they can actually achieve this, so that these very, very important tasks can also be carried out by the municipalities. So funding will have to make such a transformation? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-06-12-260	Thank you, Mr. Crusade. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. If you wish to speak, I will give you the floor. You've got 12 minutes, 16 more seconds. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-06-12-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I promise I will not take advantage of the existing timeframe on two issues. With regard to the national community transport organizer, we believe that if we can manage the work effectively and well within the ministerial framework, we do not need to outsource it outside the ministerial framework. I believe that colleagues in the department are conscientious in doing this and can do their job. With settlements primarily, Member, what you have mentioned, and with regard to rural settlements, I can say that there is a great interest and a great need to join this construction, as we see in the cities, especially the larger cities with county rights. This, I think, is, on the one hand, from a budgetary point of view, from the budgetary point of view of the municipalities and, on the other hand, from the point of view of improving the quality and service in the settlement, an opportunity for the municipalities, for which I think it is no coincidence that there is so much interest as we have experienced in the past few weeks, or we can experience it now, because the interested requests are constantly coming to our ministry. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to this bill in recent years. Thank you very much for your input and I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-262	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bálint the Great. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. There follows a debate on the report before the final vote and the proposal for amendment before the final vote on the bill amending certain laws concerning economic, wealth and postal matters. Government referral T/3778. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Tibor Pogácsás, rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-06-12-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee held on 8 June 2023 discussed the T/3778 on the amendment of the laws concerning certain economic, asset management and postal matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rule. It was adopted by 27 votes in favour and 8 votes against. Dear Parliament, The bill on the table of this House is an amendment to the regulation function of the Minister for Economic Development and to the application of other laws to public property management and regulation of economic law. On the basis of the experience of the practice, the submission proposes to amend the law on bankruptcy proceedings, according to which, if the winding-up of the liquidator is due to the removal of the insolvency administrators from the register, the court shall appoint a different insolvency administrator at the same time as the order for the release. With regard to the amendment of the Postal Services Act, the increase in the digital involvement of the population, the widespread use of electronic information collection and the epidemiological period caused by Covid-19 have significantly changed consumer habits, which also justified a review of the legislation on postal services. The purpose of the draft law is also to lay down provisions relating to compliance with the registration and reporting requirements laid down in the Law on the control of smoking of minors and retail trade in tobacco products for persons engaged in retail trade in tobacco products. In the light of what has been said, I believe that the bill is completely acceptable to my fellow Members, and I would be honored to ask for your support. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-264	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the political groups have 5-5 minutes and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. I would like to ask who would like to speak on behalf of the political groups and of the independent Members. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is therefore closed. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on legislative amendments to increase the competitiveness of the economy and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/4025. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Mr Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur for the committee.
u2023-06-12-265	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4025 on legislative amendments to increase the competitiveness of the economy. A bill with a paper number. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 26 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The main objectives of the legislative proposal on the House's table are to transpose the European Parliament and Council Directives on insurance against liability in respect of motor vehicles and on the control of insurance obligations into domestic law and to establish legal provisions for the development of economic competitiveness, with particular reference to detailed rules in support of competitiveness and the utilisation of public assets. The amendment also re-regulates the concept of a green card, which will allow the green card to be produced as an electronic certificate in addition to the paper base so far. The proposal includes amendments, inter alia, to the Capital Markets Act, which provides for the possibility for domestic capital market participants, in line with the practice of international markets, to have securities lending transactions between institutional investors for an indefinite period of time. [[19.40]] In line with the need for amendment in the legislative committee procedure, the scope of data to be reported on verified energy savings will be expanded and the rules for the management of these data will be clarified. The amendment clarifies that cash transfers under the cash back service can only be linked to purchases, i.e. payment transactions related to the consideration of goods or services, otherwise the trader would carry out payment services subject to authorisation. In accordance with standard practice, a minimum purchase amount is determined for the cashback service and the amount of cash that can be claimed for a transaction is equal to the denomination of the largest banknote. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-12-266	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Bóna. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, that he would like to speak now. [[Dr. János Fónagy: At the end.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I do not see an applicant, so no one wants to take advantage of the opportunity to speak, so the debate is closed, and I will now ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, once again, if he wishes to take advantage of the 15-minute time frame.
u2023-06-12-267	Thank you, Mr. President. The regulatory objectives set out in the bill are supported by the government, and I would ask my fellow Members to also support it in the light of what has been said.
u2023-06-12-268	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/4026. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Tibor Pogácsás, rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-06-12-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/4026 on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary was discussed at the Legislative Committee meeting on 8 June 2023. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 27 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to ensure a stable and transparent framework for the import of third country labour required for foreign investment, while ensuring maximum enforcement of the protection aspects of the Hungarian labour force and the labour market. The aim of the bill is to create the legal category of migrant workers for the employment of third countries coming to various large projects. An important element of the proposal is that a ban list is set out for occupations in which migrant workers cannot be employed in Hungary. The proposal authorises the establishment of a list of third countries from which migrant workers can be employed in Hungary and sets out the total number of migrant workers employed in Hungary for a given year with a country-by-country quota. The bill defines and describes the circle of persons that Hungary identifies as migrant workers. Thus, not all third-country nationals who are otherwise employed in Hungary are considered migrant workers, and the range of migrant workers is narrower. The creation of a legal category for migrant workers can therefore be interpreted as a kind of tightening up. In this case, the bill excludes family reunification and the acquisition of a national residence permit. These are important guarantee rules that prevent the development of a multicultural society in Western Europe. During the procedure of the Legislative Committee, the proposal has been supplemented and clarified in several places. For example, it will be possible to apply for a residence permit if, over a maximum of 2 plus 1 year, the migrant worker continues to work in Hungary that is otherwise in line with the form of employment of the guest worker. Dear House, The aim of the amendment of the legislation on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary is also to further strengthen the protection of Hungarian jobs, the growth of employment and the strengthening of the work-based society in the prolonged war situation. On this basis, I ask for your support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-12-270	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, the rapporteur, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Enterprise Development has not presented a rapporteur, and now the speakers will be taking part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2023-06-12-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I promise I'll be very brief. I think that we think that the national interests will not be met by inviting guest workers to Hungary for various industrial investments, but by giving Hungarian young people, Hungarian people and families who are forced to leave Hungary the opportunity to return. So we certainly consider this to be a misguided policy, and we see in addition to the other aspects of the industrial strategy that brings in an incredible amount of foreign producers. We can see that they are calling for migrant workers, so it is clear that they are not creating jobs for Hungarian people, and from the other side they are increasing the electricity consumption of Hungary to an amazing extent, so they are putting Hungarians in an emergency situation. I would like to draw attention to one more aspect: in today's debate, a pro-government speaker spoke about the fact that they want to provide jobs to Hungarians from abroad. I think that for all those who care about the fate of their fellow Hungarian nations living in disconnected territories, whose national policy is important, it cannot set a goal by which a large number of Hungarians living in disconnected areas are lured to factories in the motherland. It is a fundamental aspect and a fundamental national interest to provide Hungarians with the possibility of remaining in their homeland and to give support to Hungarians from abroad. They shouldn't be building a policy to leave their homeland. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-06-12-272	Thank you, Mr. Crusade. The next speaker is on behalf of Mr István Szabadi, the Group of the People's Republic of Hungary.
u2023-06-12-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, In his Facebook post on 9 June, Prime Minister, he responded to the EU's asylum proposal that it is unacceptable that they want to turn Hungary into an immigrant country by force. As we were accustomed to, he is not doing what he says, as this bill allows for mass immigration of third-country migrant workers. While he dreamed of a Hungarian Hungary in his obscene speech, the mass introduction of migrant workers will mean the same mix as letting illegal immigrants in. The government's work-based society is about implementing the exchange of people. As a result of a misguided economic policy, imports of Asian working capital involve the inflow of Asian workers. According to Prime Minister, half a million new workers will be needed in the next one or two years in the recovery factories, i.e. hundreds of thousands of third-country workers, resulting in a break in wage levels. [[19.50]] Last year, László Parragh said that Hungary's competitiveness is based on cheap labour. This is totally unacceptable. Instead of paying the Hungarian worker fairly and dealing with why they migrate to a mass abroad, they import cheap labour from developing countries. Ladies and gentlemen, A few years ago, even the imports of Serbian and Ukrainian migrant workers had great hopes, who, in view of the Hungarian wages, went quickly to Austria or Germany. In 2020, it became clear that migrant propaganda was just a communication stunt, then there was more Asian than Ukrainian migrant workers in the country. Under Covid, a government decree allowed 15 other countries to enter the country without a work permit through qualified temporary agency companies in addition to EU countries and citizens of Serbia and Ukraine. With this bill, this facilitation is intended to be extended to all guest workers in third countries. The Paks II. Due to the nuclear power plant and the Budapest-Belgrád railway investment, the government could not wait for the entry into force of the bill in early November. The situation of foreigners outside the EU working on the two investments was regulated by regulation two days after the submission of the bill. So far, 25 companies have received certification licences, which can bring Asian workers to their partners in large numbers and under simplified procedures. Sometimes, however, local recruiters only want to get applicants within the Schengen border, who obviously pay them good money and then disappear. According to announcements to our party, the Serbs also want to get rid of the majority of Muslim immigrants through Hungarian temporary agency companies, who are immediately going from Hungary to Germany with the EU admission permit. Employees hire companies promote the Asian workforce with high speed and efficiency, and they prepare employers for their employment with separate conferences. In order to facilitate integration, the emphasis should be on sensitizing not the migrant worker, but the Hungarian worker. Sometimes the employer creates a prayer room for migrant workers, but does not provide office space for local trade unions. Some foreigners pay taxes in the motherland. The Hungarian worker only sees that the guest worker takes home a net HUF 520-530 thousand for three shifts from the factory, while the Hungarian worker receives HUF 230-250,000 for the same work. The Hungarians do not feel comfortable at work, and if they signal this problem, they are threatened that Asians will come instead, who will not speak back. Guest workers make good money for temporary agency companies, they do not solve the problems of the Hungarian economy. This is by no means a long-term economic policy; political survival can be discussed in the short term. In the programme, the Labour Support for Businesses, for three months, there is a state grant of HUF 250 000 per month for all employees. Guest workers are in the workforce of temporary agency companies, employed for three months by a fixed-term contract with one employer, then transferred to another employer for another three months, and then received state aid. Hungarian entrepreneurs are creative, and they can make good use of this type of support. Our Homeland Movement does not support this bill. Our position is to build an independent national economy, which does not require hundreds of thousands of foreign migrant workers. Hungary must be protected from immigrants and Hungarian workers must be paid. We therefore demand that the government finish its bi-lucent policy, and Hungary should indeed belong to the Hungarians! Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-274	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabadi. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2023-06-12-275	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary is to protect Hungarian jobs and support economic growth. In the difficult economic situation caused by war and sanctions, we cannot allow investment to be missed because of the lack of labour. The government's aim, therefore, remains to fill job vacancies first with labour from the Hungarian and EU Member States, then can come from neighbouring countries, and if there are no more workers' hands there, they can be filled with people from third countries. The Hungarian labour market will be protected by a quota system, which guarantees the protection of Hungarian jobs, as only as many migrant workers can arrive as the Hungarian economy needs. Dear House, During the general debate on the bill, we presented and explored the substance of the new regulation in detail. The proposal will provide a transparent and rigorous regulatory framework to clarify the conditions under which migrant workers can be employed in Hungary. With the adoption of the amendment submitted to the proposal, it is now necessary to establish at legal level the precise data content of the reporting obligation for migrant workers, which will facilitate the effectiveness of the monitoring of employment. On the basis of the amendment, the bill will also be supplemented with an essential clause, with no other substantive change. Dear Parliament, After the adoption and entry into force of the bill, the regulation of the employment of migrant workers will become transparent and clear, which will be in the interest of the Hungarian economy. I thank my fellow Members for their constructive contributions during the general debate. The ideas expressed and the absence of an individual amendment to the bill indicate that we are about to adopt an important, forward-looking regulation for everyone. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you for your attention, Mr President, for your opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-276	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the protection of individuals on the publication of the protocol amending the Convention on the Mechanical Processing of Personal Data, dated 28 January 1981, in Strasbourg, and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/4023. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Dávid Héjj.
u2023-06-12-277	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the protection of individuals with regard to the publication of a protocol amending the Convention on the Automatic Processing of Personal Data in Strasbourg on 28 January 1981. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It accepted by 30 votes in favour, no votes against, with 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Convention was opened for signature in 1981, long before the Internet and its current media, which has been confirmed by 51 countries. The time has come for the Council of Europe to review and amend its rules on data protection in view of the challenges and opportunities of the age. The Amending Protocol was finalised and adopted on 18 May 2018, which is why in 2018 the Government of Hungary agreed to the signing of the Amending Protocol in the form of a Government Decision and asked the Minister of Justice to present the necessary proposal for ratification. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary pays a great deal of attention to the protection of personal data, which is covered by the Fundamental Law VI. It also states, and even confirms, that the Constitutional Court has also provided for the right of an independent authority established by a cardinal law to verify the related requirements in respect of the protection of personal data. [[20.00]] Hungary also signed the Basic Convention in an interest in strengthening the high level of protection, which was announced in the 1998 VI. It was done by law. Although the scope of the basic agreement, as highlighted in its title, basically covers only machine-processing data, i.e. situations in which data processing is carried out by automated means at least in whole or in part, Hungary has also made a separate declaration to the Convention stating that the provisions of the Convention will also apply to stocks of personal data not processed by mechanical means, i.e. manual data processing. As such, Hungary extended the application of the Convention in 1998 long before the modernisation of the Convention to those areas which were not originally covered and which will be carried out only by this Amending Protocol. Dear House, The content of the amendments targeted by the Amending Protocol is identical to the level of protection provided by the GDPR. In this context, Hungary's obligations to join will not become more burdensome, they will be equivalent to the level of data protection requirements currently in place, since it is in the interest not only of Hungary but also of the European Union to ensure the high level of protection already required in the EU Member States of the Council of Europe. Therefore, in view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-278	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author, Mr Répássy Róbert, if he wishes to comment now or later. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-06-12-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Mr President, The purpose of the bill before us is to make the so-called amendment protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Individuals in Machine Processing of Personal Data in Strasbourg, 28 January 1981, part of the Hungarian legal order in accordance with Article Q of the Fundamental Law. In the context of the bill, neither the general nor the detailed debate raised any substantive comments or objections. The legislative committee's summary amendment also contains only linguistic corrections, as is today's adjustment proposal. In view of this, I ask you to support the text of the bill to be put to the vote tomorrow with your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-280	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm waiting for the names of the speakers on the monitor. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. Obviously, Róbert Répássy does not wish to speak any more. [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to say anything. After the end of the debate, Honourable Parliament, the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the Hungarian Corvin Chain and the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/4024. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. The person who introduced this is Dávid Héyj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-06-12-281	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4024 on the Hungarian Corvin Chain and the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Corvin chain is the highest-ranking state award following the Hungarian Order of St. Stephen, which represents the recognition of outstanding merits in the fields of Hungarian science and art and the promotion of Hungarian education and culture. At present, 12 people can have a Hungarian Corvin chain award under the rules. After 58 years, the Hungarian Corvin chain award was re-established during the first Orbán government. The Corvin chain award winners form the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board. The body is working to boost science and arts, as well as Hungarian national education and culture, and is guarding the authority of the Hungarian Corvin chain award. The panel gives its opinion on the draft state decisions concerning Hungarian science, literature, art, education, culture and all other areas it considers important. It also monitors the situation of Hungarian scientific and artistic life, culture, education and culture, and in this context it may make a proposal of public interest and publish a public resolution. The aim of the bill before us is to strengthen the consistency of the laws on the Hungarian Corvin chain, the Hungarian Corvin chain body and the Hungarian Corvin chain office and to maintain the authority of the Hungarian Corvin chain. Ladies and gentlemen, Some administrative and organisational tasks related to the Corvin chain are carried out by the Hungarian Corvin Chain Office, which has worked until now within the organizational framework of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. The proposal re-regulates the provisions on the Hungarian Corvin chain, the Hungarian Corvin chain body and the Hungarian Corvin chain office with a new independent law, which is currently contained in two laws. The Hungarian Corvin chain, as it has been so far, is then donated by the President of the Republic on the basis of the presentation of the Prime Minister. However, the fact that the Hungarian Corvin Chain Office will continue to operate in the organisation of the Sándor Palace is a substantial change compared to the current regulation, its head will be appointed by the President of the Republic. Furthermore, it should be noted that the submitted bill does not affect the facts, circumstances or legal relationships existing at the time of its entry into force, so that the Corvin Chain Board continues to operate. In view of what has been said, I believe that the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-12-282	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Miklós Soltész, whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] It indicates that later, at the end of the debate. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Culture. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I do not see a candidate on the monitor, so, honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész, who is obviously closing this item on the agenda.
u2023-06-12-283	Dear Parliament, Thank you for the opportunity. Congresswoman and Lords! The aim of the bill is to strengthen the consistency of the legislation on the Hungarian Corvin chain, the Hungarian Corvin chain body and the Hungarian Corvin chain office and to maintain the authority of the Hungarian Corvin chain. This authority was unfortunately destroyed in the general debate by DK, who kicked and abused people who are very important, prominent parts of the Hungarian nation, they created or form fantastic things now. Therefore, allow me to read once again the medals of the Corvin chain: János Balogh zoologist, Zoltán Kallós ethnograph researcher, Sándor Lámfalussy economist, László Lovász mathematician, János Lukács historian, Imre Makovecz architect, István Nemeskürty literary historian, György Oláh chemist, Magda Szabó writer, Sándor Szokolay composer, Ede Teller, physicist Vilmos Zsigmond. In 2012, the following received the Corvin chain: physicist Zsolt Bor, Piarista monk István Jelenits, teacher, Zoltán Kocsis, pianist, conductor, opera singer Éva Marton, doctor and brain researcher E. Szilvester Vizi. In 2018, Péter Huszti is an actor, Miklós Maróth orientalist, academic, János Martonyi Minister of Foreign Affairs, Miklós Melocco sculptor, György Radda biochemist, Zsigmond Ritoók classic philologist, academic and Péter Sótonyi doctor, academic. In the debate they were abused by representatives of DK, the greats of the nation were abused, the whole Hungarian nation was abused. Without them, we will vote in favour of this law, and they should apologize to the players in this noble and important list. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[20.10]]
u2023-06-12-284	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws necessary to facilitate the economic exploitation of innovation and scientific results and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/4031. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-06-12-285	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4031 amending certain laws necessary to facilitate the economic exploitation of innovation and scientific results. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The provisions of the bill before us in the field of research and development, innovation include further strengthening industrial property protection and innovation results, facilitating the financing of innovative start-ups, the renewal of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, the eligibility of higher education institutions abroad, and the expansion of social contributions and tax relief linked to the employment of doctoral students. Ladies and gentlemen, The summary amendment proposal negotiated and adopted by the Legislative Committee contains several amendments. I would like to highlight just a few of these. The bill ensures that the Foundation established by the President of the Republic for the purpose of carrying out public activities under the Law on Association Law, Public Benefit Status and the Act on the Functioning and Support of Civil Organisations is, by virtue of the law, considered to be of public benefit. In addition, it provides that in order to achieve this objective, the Foundation shall be granted an allowance which meets the conditions of the application, in particular under the scholarship and support programme for the care and discovery of young talents, which is not subject to personal income tax. Dear House, The amendment also allows students with exceptional talent who have a degree and qualifications in initial education to apply for a doctoral degree in parallel with their master's degree. In order to strengthen teacher training, teachers training centres can be transformed into a teaching centre, with the aim of increasing the participation of teachers in education. The proposal also includes legal technical amendments to change the name of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network to the Hungarian Research Network. Finally, the amendment also contains detailed rules that are necessary in the context of the maintenance change of the budget bodies of the healthcare service provider operating in the maintenance of the National Hospital Directorate-General in order to provide further efficient tasks. A public benefit higher education institution maintained by a public trust fund with a public service mission will be the maintainer of the merging healthcare service provider that ceases as a budgetary body. Dear Parliament, In order to facilitate the economic exploitation of innovation and scientific results, the amendments contained in this bill can raise the innovation, scientific policy successes of recent years to a higher level, and strengthen the results of the economic, social and intellectual impact created by the actors of domestic innovation. That is why I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-286	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ovadi. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Hankó Balázs, that he wishes to speak now or later. [[Dr. Balázs Hankó Zoltán: At the end.]] Later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Culture. Interventions by Members shall take place within the time limits on which the agenda is to be held. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm waiting for the candidate, but the monitor doesn't have any representatives on it. I therefore give the floor to Secretary of State Balázs Hankó.
u2023-06-12-287	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent years Hungarian higher education and innovation has been renewed and strengthened. Along the lines of the objectives set, we have a more autonomous, competitive, predictable, flexible network of higher education and universities, which Brussels has been constantly attacking without legal basis in recent weeks and months. Our task is to protect Hungarian students, researchers and teachers. In addition, we have significantly increased funding for universities over the last few years and our innovation expenditure has reached 1.65% of GDP in 2021. To further strengthen, the Neumann János programme will continue the process of bringing Hungary to the top 10 in Europe by 2030, the world's top 25 innovators. The programme focuses on strengthening the knowledge economy and domestic added value. We have three key words: association, impact, measurement. In addition, the John von Neumann programme proposes nine main actions. We set Hungarian research on an international path, we promote excellent innovation ideas, we focus our innovation investments around healthy life, green transition, digital transition and security. We also provide a predictable career for Hungarian researchers. We give discounts to domestic businesses and inventors in patent procedures and encourage innovation activities in scientific progress. We will help raise funds for companies that have made use of research results. As a space for cooperation between universities and the economy, we are creating science and innovation parks and making innovations limitless, i.e. extending the support of innovation to the entire Carpathian Basin. Allow me to add a short thought that, as part of the legislative package, the research institute network will continue its work on the initiative of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network from 1 September 2023 under the name of the Hungarian Research Network. The aim of the renaming is to make it easy and clear to identify the independent Hungarian research network based on the name among the members of the Hungarian and international R &amp; D and innovation ecosystem. The Hungarian Research Network in English supports the effective communication of Hungarian research results and thus contributes to increasing the visibility and recognition of the research network and Hungary on the international scene. Honourable Members, As Mr Ovádi pointed out, I would like to highlight two essential elements from the proposal for higher education. One is to help and strengthen practical training by transforming teacher training centres into pedagogical centres, to strengthen service purchasing functions and to strengthen practical training spaces. On the other hand, in addition to the Master's degree, we will make the doctoral programmes available simultaneously to excellent students with scientific, academic and linguistic knowledge. In order for Hungarian universities and related research networks to be synonymous with quality everywhere, we have done much in recent years. Our aim is to make Hungary the most dynamic knowledge centre in Europe by 2030, so we pay particular attention to our universities, research institutes and their interconnection with the economy. We provide the conditions, the supportive environment from which John von Neumann of our time can start. We must give every opportunity to young talent who will conquer the world from home. Hungarian creativity and innovation are the key to our future, and the pillars of this are our renewed universities and research network. To do this, I ask with respect the support of the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.20]]
u2023-06-12-288	Thank you very much for closing the debate with Mr Zoltán Hankó, State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to the role of the Minister for Agriculture and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/3768. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Bóna, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-06-12-289	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3768 on the amendment of certain laws to the function of the Minister for Agriculture. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal to amend certain laws concerning the function of the Minister of Agriculture is a salad law amending 33 laws, which deals with agricultural and agricultural matters. The amendment tabled by the Committee on Legislative Affairs contains technical, text-exchange amendments and language positioning clarifications. The purpose of the amendment to the Law on Wildlife Protection, Wildlife Management and Hunting is to supplement the general rules on captive hunting with commercial maintenance and reproduction. The amendment also provides the legal basis for the Hunting Authority competent for the authorisation of indoor wild game keeping to keep records of closed-air wild game facilities with a specific content of data, the personal data content of which is also set out in the proposal. In addition, in order to ensure effective control of wild game stocks, or for animal health reasons, hunting equipment consisting of an electronic image enlarger or a image converter may be used as a means of hunting during the prescribed period for wild species as defined in the Decree on the implementation of the Law. It is important to point out that the proposal provides for the possibility of establishing a legal framework for youth hunting, which, together with the establishment of detailed rules, will lead to the possibility for a person under the age of 18 to exercise individual hunting methods, which, of course, can only be done under the direct supervision and permanent escort of a person of age and with at least five years of hunting practice, or with the temporarily transferred weapon of the supervising person. The long-standing demand of professional interest organisations is that, like the hunting ticket, the hunting license should qualify for hunting in all the hunting areas of the country. The amendment creates this possibility. The purpose of the amendment to the expropriation law is to supplement the public interest objectives on which the expropriation is based with the case of irrigation farming. According to the amendment concerned, the interest in the sustainable production of raw materials for the feeding of the population may justify the granting of an expropriation title to the area of potential storage sites for water retention. The amendment to the Land Protection Act expands the special cases of locality. Based on the practice of law enforcement, the area requirement for the exploration and conservation of archaeological artefact was defined as a specific, typical case of stationaryity. The amendment to the Land Traffic Act aims at examining the cost-proportionality of the land. The amendment of the law on the liquidation of undivided common property in the fields is necessary because it lays down specific rules for the procedure for the elimination of undivided common property generated in the course of the share-land expenditure, with the assistance of the Government Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill should be supported, and I therefore propose that it be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-290	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Bóna. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Sándor Farkas, whether he would like to comment now or at the end of the forthcoming debate. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] It indicates that at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Agriculture. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2023-06-12-291	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I have only one question in this debate. The bill clarifies the issue of sustainable water management, which is a technical element of this proposal, but we know exactly what a huge challenge this is, so what we have to do with water management. Last week, we also spoke with Mr Rétvári State Secretary on this issue, and I think that in many respects we have agreed that there is now a water management that will help to drain the waters as quickly as possible instead of keeping the waters, and, overall, the country has been in a position for a very, very long time to drain more water than it is coming in, and in this way it is actually draining the country, drying the country out. In recent times, it has been very often formulated in official forums, and we are talking more and more about the need for a fundamental change of attitude in water management, and it is essential to keep water in the landscape, as this gives us the opportunity to keep water in the former floodplains, in the once flooded areas, which gives us the opportunity to reverse these extremely negative and dangerous processes. However, despite the fact that, last October, the Minister for Agriculture was also present at the thematic meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, which could be said to have agreed with these objectives, and even as a promise, it was made to involve those professionals who understand and see the tasks of water retention in the countryside and, where appropriate, apply it here and there in practice, so, despite all this, we do not really perceive that this idea has already appeared in the legislation, given its importance. We do know that there is a bill that may have come before the government in a second round, and here it wants to establish a long-term concept, but it would be very, very important, and we also agreed with the Secretary of State of Rétvári that these opportunities should be given as much space as possible here, and it is clear that, overall, agriculture, water management, water affairs and policy must work together on these issues. So my question, Mr. Secretary, is that although you have not yet been involved, say, with the initiative of the "Driver" here in the legislation or in the preparation of the law or decisions, does the Ministry of Agriculture also have openness to create a professional forum to talk about these important issues? Mr Rétvári, Minister of State, said positively, they are waiting for the request, and I would consider it very, very important if there were such a positive feedback from the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Sándor Farkas to Bencey of Rétvári: Then the field is yours! Bence Farkas of Rétvár to Sándor: He's coming to KDNP! He's coming over! He's filing his application in a year.]] and then, finally, those professionals who see the essence of this concept might be able to get closer to the decision-making level and thus provide an opportunity to ensure the future of the nation so that sustainable, genuine sustainable water management can be made available in decision-making and can be achieved. [[Sándor Farkas intervenes.]] I very much hope that openness, like last October's meeting, is there on the part of the Agricultural Ministry, so that we can take positive action together on this matter. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2023-06-12-292	Thank you, Congressman László Keresztes. I would like to ask you if someone else would like to take the opportunity in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman David Dócs, representative of our country.
u2023-06-12-293	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The truth is that although we considered this amendment to the law to be supportive in the debate, although I stated that, unfortunately, it is because of the salad law, which we are happy to support, and that there is something that we are forced to do, but on a few points I might rephrase our position. The fact that the elimination of the undivided common ownership is practically under review by the current government is a very good and welcome thing, because there is a lot of such land in the Hungarian countryside, and they should now finally be fully involved in the Hungarian agriculture, and they should be involved in production so far because of this form of ownership. We hope that this current regulation will be able to adapt this properly. The local land prices, this is a much more delicate and interesting topic, as we can see the land prices now practically set on the Internet. This means that I would like to illustrate to you by example that in the district of Balassagyarmat, in Nógrád County, a hectare of pasture is tapped to 150 thousand forints, which means that this is a ridiculous price, because the usual land prices, which, let's say, were available on the billboard of the municipality or on magyarország.hu, were many times the same, since in one million forints, we could not buy land in the country of the least valuable land. [[20.30]] Therefore, this review and the rethink of this regulation would be of great importance to us. Mr. Veszőparapam, I was also responsible for sustainable water management, and at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture last time, on behalf of the Ministry of Interior, we were able to hear from the Head of Department that the river basin principle is in force in Hungary. The problem is that, in practice, I have also told you, and I will tell you here too, we do not see this happening, because, as my fellow Member, Mr Keresztes said, it is not practically an empty puffed phrase, but it is more water leaving the Carpathian Basin than it is coming in, and that is what Mr. Head of Department said that this is a natural process. Many things can be called, not natural, because quite simply this is a default process. Of course, as Secretary of State Rétvári said, Mr III. Charles' mistakes should not be counted at the Fidesz administration, but it is necessary to state that we are talking about decades and centuries of omissions here. [[Bence Rétvári: Centuries.]] However, the Fidesz administration has had 13 years to at least start something on this subject, but we have noticed that this has not yet been successful. This could be similar to the two-week order. That hasn't really arrived in Hungary yet. Water management seems to be another topic. But I am particularly pleased that Deputy Minister for Agriculture is in charge of putting such a water management plan on the table. I understand this was supposed to be last fall. There are slides, we see them, but we hope that we have this, and we see it as soon as possible, because that would be our goal, and we would very much like Hungary not to be dehydrated, but to use the status of the great power of fresh water that we have in our hands right now. However, if we do not act quickly, I also said that, unfortunately, this would be easy to reverse, and that we cannot, in practice, take advantage of even the opportunities that are in front of us and which are given. Then I would encourage the agricultural purse to change the hunting law more bravely, as there are many ways and many points that could be modified. I am thinking, first of all, that we should also balance the number of wild game stocks with agricultural production, because now it seems that the two are not exactly together peacefully. Now we can talk about a large number of wild game that endangers production, and even makes it impossible in some places, because not only in cultures, in agricultural cultures, the big game is already doing huge damage, but the technical term is that the forest does not grow out of its wild mouth, unfortunately it is a reality, not just a professional expression. So this must be addressed, since how sad it is to have an invasive species, for example, in this case, a white acacia, destroyed by an indigenous animal. However, this analogy, this parallel, clearly shows that perhaps the measure that is enlarged, let's say, is not healthy in our country. Not to mention that the muflon and the deer, which is a foreign country, can also boast huge flocks. This, of course, means income from a hunting point of view, but it does not compensate agriculture and forest farmers. I would also like to draw attention to one very important thing in closing, because it is well known to everyone who deals with hunting that the wild is the property of the state. It would be much simpler, it would simplify a lot if the government were to follow the principle that if the wild is the property of the state, then the damage caused by the wild is also the responsibility of the state, it is necessary for the State to pay for it, as this is a minor item in the Hungarian budget. However, I think that if I do not understand the insane fences in the woods now, because there is a need for a fence, but the insane fence of arable crops could be prevented by the fact that, instead of hunting companies, the payment of which in the case of wildlife damage is always uncertain on their part, even if the state had to reserve the previous year, then I think that a much more efficient farming could be achieved. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience. That's pretty much it. There's no time left for the last sentence, but thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2023-06-12-294	Thank you very much, Congressman Dócs. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate on the screen, so the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary [[Sándor Farkas indicates that he wishes to speak.]] to respond to what has been said within a 15-minute time frame. Thank you.
u2023-06-12-295	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, To tell you the truth, I thought that I did not need to speak very much here tonight, but since two of my fellow Members and the great rapporteur of the Committee on Legislative Affairs covered the decisions of the Committee on Legislative Lawmaking, I thought that it was appropriate to respond to this. Firstly, I would like to thank the Committee on Legislative Affairs for its comments, information and decision. To my fellow Member, Mr László Keresztes, who raised thoughts and questions about sustainable water management: we fully agree on that, although I said it right here, and you constantly referred to Mr Rétvári, State Secretary [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] Since the whole water management, the water system belongs to the Ministry of the Interior, this issue always comes down to the Ministry of Agriculture. But I would also like to answer this in part, because, indeed, as my fellow Member, Mr Dócs, asked the question and referred to the material that we presented to the government in November last year, which is a concept based on a very wide-ranging professional consultation, and for the next 10-15 years defines the most important projects for water management, as well as the areas where irrigation would be needed and possible, in addition to water management. Of course, these two things need to be linked, as water management is one of the most important issues in itself. And to think that there's more water coming out of the country than there is going to be, I don't want to spoil the joke: we can't drink that much, it's one of them. The other: even when I referred to this many times in the late 1970s, there were about 385,000 hectares of irrigated land in Hungary with an absolute non-water-saving irrigation process and technique, even more water left the country. So from this point of view, I am sure that these reserves are and will remain. Ladies and gentlemen, Water management has always been an important topic in the field of agriculture, and this reference, and the amendment that is contained in the law, is also designed to make irrigation farming in these areas even more flexible and faster, which I believe has been an obstacle to the development of irrigation farming technology in many places so far - not only in my view. I am returning here for a moment since the river regulation, but I do not want to open a debate on this, because I think we talked about this last time about river regulations, flood regulations, I would say, the impact of your actions hundreds of years ago is a truly negative impact today. Now we Hungarians are like this to talk about irrigation when such national, beautiful rain clouds flooded the country on Medárd's Day and before that, when I have to say I return to my original profession, the Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian border is so beautiful, I would say, for many years, I could say, perhaps 10-15 years ago. We are now living at a time when last year's huge losses in agriculture due to drought damage seem to be tilting to another side, and I am sure that they are tilting, and the summer crops will soon be hit, although I do not want to yell at this, but I must say that even the spring pickling plants are in extremely good condition. So far, very irrigation has not taken place, because it may have needed a boiler irrigation in some narrower area, but that is not the point in itself. It must be prepared that there will still be dry seasons, there will be dry periods, there will be dry years, when the issue of irrigation is essential, and this draft, which I referred to earlier, can provide the right opportunities. Of course, this requires very serious budgetary resources. These budgetary resources will not be available for other large investments, it seems that this year perhaps planning work in one or two smaller areas is possible, but we will have to wait for this in the overall volume. [[20.40]] Dear fellow Member, The undivided joint elimination and the local land prices I believe you asked me about this the other day, if I recall correctly. I also made reference to the fact that the National Chamber of Agriculture will re-examine these events and will come out with a new proposal, a new number line, which hopefully will already contain real market value. I agree with you, for 150 thousand forints, I consider 1 hectare of pasture to be an unrealistic and unspeakable price anywhere in the country. I'm sorry for the expression. With regard to the hunting law, I completely agree. Although I have hunting licenses and exams, but I don't take this opportunity, I haven't lived many times in my life, a couple of times. I fully agree that there is an increase in wildlife in many areas of the country which is not in line with the size of agricultural areas. Indeed, it is true that you have claimed that the game is state-owned and that the Hungarian State will not pay for it. I wouldn't go down this street. Rather, I would say that we should restore or re-establish the wild game stock in Hungary, which we have had before, and there have been bearable wildlife damage in addition to this stock. I think it would be the right thing to do, and perhaps ecologically it would be the most acceptable solution. The fence, I'll say it again, I don't think it's a solution, setting up the right number of wild animals. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support the draft law and to agree with this proposal to amend 33 agricultural laws. A significant part of this is about both practical life and changes resulting from practical experience, and I do not think that any political side should have a particular objection to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-296	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the application of professional service law as well as on the amendment of certain laws relating to registers and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/3757. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Dávid Héjj.
u2023-06-12-297	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3757 on the amendment of certain laws relating to professional service law and to certain registrations. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal before us is to update the law on professional service and to introduce a number of new foreign police institutions such as foreign police bail or a renewable EU blue card, and to renew certain rules on records and data management, to reduce red tape and provide data, and to simplify the processes of data processing. The establishment of a foreign police bail institution should be highlighted in the train of the amendment of the Alien Police Act, the essence of which is that the Alien Police Authority may terminate the detention of aliens even if, on the basis of the prior assessment of the authority, the provision of foreign facilities in the proceedings can also be ensured through the payment of bail. This therefore does not jeopardise the implementation of the deportation. It is important to stress that a mandatory place of residence for the foreigner will be designated if bail is imposed. The foreign national cannot apply for bail, its conditions and its possible application shall be ex officio examined by the foreign police authority and applied if the foreigner, at the request of the authority, declares that he is willing to make bail. The amendments to the bill concerning certain registers, the amendments to the domestic data reporting provisions, are essentially aimed at simplifying the current reporting practice and making it more transparent. The amendment will lead to the elimination of group, i.e. regular reporting. In these cases, according to current practice, an official decision is taken at the client's request and the data will then be provided on a regular basis without any further official decision being taken. The new solution therefore creates a clearer legal situation and facilitates the enforcement of data protection rules and makes it easier to control. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee also adopted a substantial amendment, several of which dealt with only technical problems. Among the few substantive additions, mention should be made of the rules on the national human reproductive register and the provisions on health insurance obligations arising from defective private health care. The measures and provisions contained in the bill on the House's table aim to strengthen the security of citizens, speed up individual procedures, strengthen uniform case-law and maintain operational capacity. In view of this, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-298	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author, Mr. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, now or at the end. [[For signal:]] ; indicates that you intend to end the debate at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm looking at the screen, I can't see a candidate. Therefore, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. I am now giving the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-06-12-299	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I hope that there were not too many contributions because everyone agreed with both the basic proposal and the amendments that have been made since then. This obviously makes data processing more smooth while maintaining the appropriate guarantees. We are obviously able to transpose an important amendment on the EU Blue Card, which, while protecting us from external illegal migration by the framework of Hungarian laws, can serve the principle of free movement of persons within the European Union. We regret that it is precisely not the protection of the external borders that unfortunately raises the internal borders between certain countries over and over again. Foreign police bail can benefit from a well-established legal institution in another area. Criminal records and public employment laws contain related simplifications, making them more life-friendly. Obviously, it is also very important in the field of law enforcement to put forward preliminary opinions or lower positions and other measures that help to ensure that a person is unable to carry out his duties for some reason in some part of the law enforcement profession, so he can perform his duties in another part of the law enforcement system, thus also serving the safety of the Hungarian people. I would ask my fellow Members to support both the amendments and the original proposal tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-300	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The 1995 LVII on water management follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/4029. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will be presented first in the debate by Congressman Dávid Héjj. You have the floor. [[20.50]]
u2023-06-12-301	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1995 LVII on water management. T/4029. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 34 votes in favour, 2 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As a result of climate change, the weather of our country is also significantly affected by extreme weather events, heat waves, droughts. The damage caused by more severe climate change periods not only occurs in areas affected by intensive agricultural production and protected by nature protection, but also in households' family and backyard gardens, and therefore, in line with the state's environmental, social and economic consequences for sustainable development, it is also necessary to support activities to maintain the green vegetation of the residential environment, in order to protect the environment, human life and health, and in this context also to promote stable access to water for the population. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the amendment to the Water Management Act is to facilitate the establishment and operation of wells within a defined range of wells, while at the same time facilitating stable access to water for the population and farmers. It is important to note that the Constitutional Court has already set guidelines and frameworks for the regulation of the bill, which had to be taken into account in the legislative process. The regulatory proposal to be negotiated is based on several essential elements which are of a guarantee nature. Please allow me to highlight some of them. A country map of risky and risk-free areas for the protection of water resources is the basis for the classification of household wells as a non-notified or unlicensed area; all of this is relevant for the location of the wells. The other cornerstone of the bill is the introduction of the concept of a well satisfying the household water demand. Household water demand means the use of water for drinking water or domestic use of the natural person. With the definition of the well, the bill sets a quantitative limit for the removal of water from the well, with a maximum limit of 500 cubic metres per year. As a third point, the bill states that the depth of the house well must not exceed 50 metres and cannot reach the first waterproofing layer. As a fourth pillar, the bill states that household wells can be established, operated or eliminated by reporting to the water authority in areas sensitive to water resources and therefore to be protected. Mr President, Dear House, I believe that the bill before us with guarantee rules will provide a good solution to the situation of small wells, and will also reassure farmers and farm farmers about the situation of wells for domestic and agricultural irrigation in the absence of a permit. Given what has been said, I believe that the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-302	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author, Bencé Retvári, if you'd like to speak now or later.
u2023-06-12-303	Later.
u2023-06-12-304	He'll tell you later. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Agriculture. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, so I would like to give the floor first to Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK.
u2023-06-12-305	Dear House, I would just like to say very briefly that we find it extremely regrettable that our proposal to prepare a comprehensive, complete, large national water management plan, which covers a number of issues relating to water management, drinking water, irrigation water, industrial water supply, gives Parliament a transparent and continuous insight into this fundamental issue, there was no reception capacity for the majority of governments. We continue to support this proposal because we believe that a bad legislation should not be kept alive, an unenforceable legislation, so these amendments are necessary, but the fact is that nothing has been resolved in itself. Now, at any time, I bet you that this law will be here again in Parliament in a year or two, because it will have to be done again to review, in substance, the rules on water management, not only those relating to wells, but also the other rules. We simply cannot afford that XXI. At this time of the century, as my fellow Members have already mentioned here, as extremely unpredictable weather conditions are waiting for Hungary as a result of climate change, so that we do not treat water management as a fundamental strategic sector, and that we do not create the appropriate legislative and professional framework. So what I can say is that we continue to support the proposal, but we regret that this was not the intention of the government to create a framework for at least a more comprehensive water management. Thank you very much. [[Andrea Hegedüs applauds.]]
u2023-06-12-306	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate on the screen, so the debate is closed. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-06-12-307	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that there have been basically supportive contributions both in the general debate and now in the second debate. Obviously everyone has their own comments about the government in general, but I think we are living with a proposal, as has been said in the Expoze, also today, which provides a wellamnesty for the small wells, which is not more than 500 cubic meters per year and which does not reach the first waterproofing layer, which helps those who have tended their own small gardens or have cultivated agricultural areas on a smaller scale, we can provide them with an exemption from unnecessary administration and huge costs. This would have cost families or even smaller farmers hundreds of thousands of dollars per small well, so I hope that everyone will be able to support this tomorrow. I think that this will make it a great relief for all Hungarian garden owners or small farmers by summer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-12-308	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the legislative amendments to the circular economy and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/4030. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the committee, presented the position of the Legislative Committee first in the debate. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-12-309	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee held on 8 June 2023 discussed the T/4030 on circular economy amendments. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, One of the objectives of the legislative amendment proposal before us is to ensure consistency with other detailed rules and with the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. An example is the motion for harmony with the rules of the extended producer responsibility system. In addition to the clarification necessary for the transition to new models of waste management, the amendment aims to achieve standardisation. The concept of "uploading" set out in the proposal supports the protection of groundwater, since the explanation can exclude the possibilities of water and groundwater involvement. The bill covers information obligations on a number of points, including the information transfer tasks of municipalities and property owners, which are essential elements of the effective provision of tasks. The proposal for legislative amendments to the circular economy affects the fight against illegal landfills on a number of points. In addition to rationally simplifying the transport of waste generated in the defined circle and small quantities, it proposes financial incentives to increase the amount of waste to be transferred. [[21.00]] Despite the efforts made so far, the development of illegal landfills is one of the main problems of today, the existing heaps justify the possibility of submitting a request for mortgage registration in the event of an infringement as defined in the proposal. The members of the Legislative Committee discussed the bill on 8 June, and 43 amendments were adopted during the meeting, in which technical and codification clarifications were proposed in addition to the drafting and norm-clearity points. Some of the TAB members' proposals point out that there are several paragraphs in the relevant legislative amendment that are regulated by the law previously published, so it is necessary to re-establish the legislative objective by re-regulation of certain paragraphs within the framework of the structural unit. A corrective proposal has also been made to determine the possibility for the waste management authority to make a request for fairness on its own initiative in cases where the elimination of waste would be a disproportionate burden for the property owner. This is one more step towards proper disposal of waste and the fight against illegal landfills. The bill also regulates the purpose of data processing, specifying the scope of the data processed in detail. The Legislative Committee's proposals include the intention to change the list of records kept by the waste management authority in order to verify the non-compliance, which complements the content of the register with, for example, the date of the infringement and its description. In addition, it points out that the data in the archive register should be deleted by the authority five years from the date of its entry into the archive. One of the amendments is to extend the deadline for preparing for the concession scheme, as the provision of public service services for the second quarter of 2023 may be difficult, so the correction is essential because of customer satisfaction and additional tasks. [[The chair is occupied by Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.]] The bill before us contains a number of provisions which are essential for the use of the new system of waste management and which support our country's success in the future by creating a circular economy. The Fidesz-KDNP Group supports the adoption of the proposal in the light of the amendments adopted, and I ask my fellow opposition Members to do the same. Thank you for listening.
u2023-06-12-310	Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue the debate by asking the State Secretary, on behalf of the rapporteur, if you would like to take the opportunity to speak now. [[Dr. Anikó Raisz: No.]] He says he doesn't want to. In this case, Mr László Keresztes, Member, will present the minority opinion of the designated Committee on Sustainable Development. You have the floor, please.
u2023-06-12-311	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, I will try to summarise very briefly what was the essence of the minority opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development. We talked about the fact that the main content of the bill and the main message of its justification, the transition to a circular economy are obviously a consensual idea, and we consider it very important. At the same time, it should be noted that this is practically just a technical bill trying to take a direction, a concrete implementation that we cannot agree with. So the fact that MOL has been put in a monopoly position in this way, and there is no guarantee or answer to a lot of fundamental questions from the other side, obviously does not allow us to support this proposal. However, I do not want to hide it; I did not do this at the committee's meeting, either, that there are positive elements in this, for example, which my fellow Member mentioned, that if someone stores waste on his property without a permit for more than a year, then there will finally be substantial opportunities to register the mortgage so that a real attitude can be shown by the authorities so that such waste can actually be dealt with without a permit. This is an important step in itself, although it may not be enough. I would also like to highlight a negative, which, on the other hand, seems to us to be a very serious negative, namely the amendment, treatment of the concept of uploading, and the fact that there is no need to conduct a water protection authority procedure in such cases. We believe that if this does not have to be done, it is not possible to know precisely that the upload caused damage to groundwater. It's an extremely serious risk. In this connection, there was also a proposal for an amendment to one of my fellow Members, but this was not supported by the government side, so, overall, it was possible to develop a situation in the committee that we remained in a minority in this regard. At the same time, in order to address this important problem a little more generally on the subject of the bill, the opinion of the Committee on Legislative Affairs said that it is a huge task and a huge challenge to combat the elimination of illegal landfills. Well, I think many people have expressed reasonable and realistic concerns about the fact that, since there is a great deal of uncertainty in this system, which is about to enter into force, there is no guarantee that companies with very serious experience and a range of professionals can integrate, there is indeed concern that this change has not meant a field for more illegal landfills. In fact, if this happens, although it is enough to look at the current situation, then when will there finally be a legislative amendment that can really act more effectively against the polluters? I'll also have a few more questions, but I'll be asking you in the time frame of the faction. Thank you, Madam President.
u2023-06-12-312	Indeed, the speeches by the Members are now taking place in the time-frames on the agenda. In the course of the debate, two-minute contributions are not possible, and MEP László Keresztes has also applied for a comment. You have the floor, please.
u2023-06-12-313	Thank you very much. Madam President, Then I'd like to continue. Well, in many cases, I have been confronted with the fact that the authorities are simply unmanageable in the event of the destruction of illegal landfills, and even when we have provided concrete evidence, either photographed or video evidence, and the identity of the polluter, the unauthorised disposal of waste, has been recognizable. It simply happens in a series that they cannot hold the polluters to account. So I think it is really time to initiate a legislative amendment, and I would add that this is only part of your ministry's task to strengthen this system of instruments in the hands of the authorities. Furthermore, it is also a huge problem that there is a systemic experience in Hungary that foreign garbage flows into Hungary. In several cases, we have struggled with a situation in which plastic waste from Italy was typically imported into the country by having, moreover, received government authorizations for the processing of waste, while at the same time issuing these licences without clearly having any conditions for the processing of waste. Companies have brought in incredible quantities of plastic waste, if any. The processing of this, we can say, did not happen, of course, and then the company was liquidated, was not really responsible, and a huge source of danger arose here and there, say, in Tamási settlement by creating huge waste mountains a few hundred metres from the inhabited areas. Then the state had a huge cost of disposing of this. So I think there is something to be done here. While we are talking about these issues and I mentioned them at the committee meeting, I would also like to mention that there are very, very serious reservations that are not part of the responsibility of this government, but are very serious shortcomings. For example, the case of the disposal of various brutal soil pollution, which has been going on for decades. For example, I am thinking of the case of Scented Road in Budapest, or if we are looking closer to my narrower residential area, for example, Hidas, there was the Budapest Chemical Works before, several decades ago, such pollution, which is still unsolved or unsolved. If we are serious about the disposal of waste or pollution in this way, it is necessary to take substantial action on this issue. So I hope that we will hear good news and positive news from Madam Secretary of State on these matters. Thank you, Madam President.
u2023-06-12-314	I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[Dr. Anikó Raisz: Yes.]] It indicates that you wish to respond, so the floor is for Secretary of State Anikó Raisz. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-315	Thank you very much. Madam President! Dear House, Thank you very much for your participation in the debate, and thank you very much for your support. Indeed, a proposal for an amendment by its representatives has been submitted to the bill, and the Committee on Sustainable Development has indeed not submitted a proposal. The amendment proposal was also tabled after the close of the detailed debate in the TAB procedure and, as Mr President mentioned, there are provisions in this regard, inter alia, for technical clarification, clarity and clarification of the original legislative intention. [[21.10]] In the expozee, we also mentioned that the most important part of the proposal is the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. It contains amendments to the Act, so I remind you once again that, in fact, most of the provisions, to which we have now made the clarification amendments, were already adopted two years ago in an amendment at that time. In short, in response to what Mr Lóránt Keresztes said from the chair of the committee and its representatives, the majority of the amendments are indeed technical and indeed serve to fine-tune the concession model launched on 1 June at the legislative level. Indeed, it is one of the most important goals that we accepted in the climate and nature conservation action plan two years ago to get a clean Hungary. The fight against the landfill of illegal waste is indeed an important goal, and we will continue to do our best in the future. So thank you for the recognition that has been given to these parts of this amendment. Once again, we would like to clarify that there is a misunderstanding about the concept of uploading, and it contains a tightening up. And as far as the water protection procedure is concerned, there it was necessary to establish coherence on the basis of the sign of the co-wallet. We have the water protection procedure, but not in this procedural framework, but in the system, so we were talking about a clarification. Water protection has not fallen out, and the aim is to maintain it. Thank you again for bringing up illegal waste, we are still counting on your cooperation in the fight against this. With a short sentence, let me refer to the question of the pollution mentioned in the last speech. Indeed, remediation is a legacy that has existed for many decades, sometimes even across systems, with which everyone will face in the coming days. Let me inform the Member that both of these cases are in the process of remedial action. This is a longer process, but both cases are involved in a large-scale project with which we are also trying to take action, both in terms of the Scented Way and in terms of Hidas; otherwise, many other projects are included. So for my part, I would like to thank you for your contributions, your support, and I would like to ask you, in order to move as quickly as possible to the circular economy, to support the bill before us. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-316	I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to the Annex to Decision No XXI of 2007 The Protocol on Heavy Metals, adopted in Aarhus on 24 June 1998, annexed to the 1979 Geneva Convention on Long-Range Tangible Air Pollution, adopted at the 31st meeting of the Executive Body of the Convention on 24 June 1998, adopted on 13 December 2012. 1 and 2012/6. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the publication of the amendment to Decision No 17 and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/4022. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr Tibor Pogácsás, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-317	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 8 June 2023 the Legislative Committee discussed the 21st of 2007 The Protocol on Heavy Metals, adopted in Aarhus on 24 June 1998, annexed to the 1979 Geneva Convention on Long-Range Tangible Air Pollution, adopted on 13 December 2012 at the 31st meeting of the Executive Body of the Convention, adopted on 13 December 2012. 1 and 2012/6. T/4022. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 34 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2007 Act published the so-called HM Protocol on Heavy Metals annexed to the 1979 Geneva Convention, which was supported by all the political groups of the National Assembly of then. The HM Protocol states that all countries which have acceded to the Convention are obliged to take effective measures to reduce annual emissions. It also states that the country which accedes to the Convention must draw up a national strategy, a programme and apply the best available techniques. The aim of the Geneva Convention itself is to reduce emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and incineration processes, and to contain persistent organic pollutants, long-range transboundary air pollution. The quantitative and qualitative state of natural, environmental resources basically defines the limitations of the potential of a given society, and therefore the protection of all these is of paramount importance. Energy efficiency, environmental awareness and sustainability are among the most important issues of the present and of the future. Building the future is a common task and it is therefore important to create and introduce economic policy measures that link economic development with ecological development. This bill serves these purposes. The Legislative Committee has adopted a summary amendment containing drafting and codification provisions. The unanimous decision of the committee, I think, guarantees the support of the law. Thank you for the floor, Madam President.
u2023-06-12-318	I would like to ask the rapporteur that he now wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want me right now. In this case, we will continue the debate with speeches, as the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs has not presented a rapporteur. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to speak during the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the debate is closed. Then I'll ask the Secretary of State to take the opportunity. [[For signal:]] It indicates that you're taking the opportunity now. You have a 15-minute time frame to speak. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-319	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to thank the factions for their support and contributions in this debate. Indeed, long-range transboundary air pollution can only be stopped or reduced by international cooperation, which is what this bill is for. What you have just said, Congressman, apart from what you have just said, allow us to draw attention to just a few things. Among other things, the Protocol sets strict limits on emissions from fixed sources and proposes the use of so-called best available technologies and so-called mercury-free procedures. It also requires the parties to phase out leaded petrol. It introduces measures to reduce heavy metal emissions from other products and proposes management measures for other products containing mercury, such as electrical components, measuring devices, fluorescent lamps, dental amalgam, plant protection products and paint. I would ask the honourable Members and gentlemen to vote in favour of this consensual proposal. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-320	I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the publication of the Protocol and amendments to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Tangible Air Pollution on persistent organic pollutants and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. Government referral T/4021. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Pogácsás in a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-06-12-321	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 8 June 2023 the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the Protocol T/4021 on persistent organic pollutants annexed to the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transient Air Pollution. Bill No. 1. [[21.20]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 34 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The Parties to the Geneva Convention, signed in 1979, have undertaken to limit or gradually reduce emissions of air pollutants in cooperation, thereby helping to prevent transboundary air pollution. On 24 June 1998 a Protocol was annexed to the Convention in question, which regulates the reduction of atmospheric emissions of persistent organic pollutants. However, from time to time, it is fortunate to review the content of these international conventions. Accordingly, the protocol annexed to the Geneva Convention and the present Protocol have been updated and supplemented by the implementing body of the Convention. The bill before us therefore contains the decisions setting out the amendments to this Protocol. The Legislative Committee adopted a summary amendment containing a grammatical provision, wording and codification provisions. Thank you for listening. Thank you for the floor, Madam President.
u2023-06-12-322	I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[Dr. Anikó Raisz:]] He says he doesn't want to. In this case, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible for the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I'm asking if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Madam Secretary of State indicates that she wants to take advantage of this opportunity now. Here you go. You have the floor within a 15-minute time frame.
u2023-06-12-323	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Thank you once again for the participation of the factions in the general debate. T/4022 has just been discussed. With regard to bill No 1 we have already explained the need to reduce long-range air pollution and why this is important because of its adverse effects on human health and the natural environment. This bill does nothing but take another step to control, reduce and eliminate emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants. Thank you very much for the work of the Legislative Committee, and I respectfully ask the Parliament to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-12-324	I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, Mr Gergely Arató applied for a post-meeting speech from the DK Group. You have the floor in five minutes.
u2023-06-12-325	Thank you very much. Dear House, Every year the 1st of July is the celebration of Hungarian health care. This is the day Ignatius Semmelweis was born, who is also known as the Mother's Savior. In my constituency, in Stone Mine and Kispesten, we thank the health care workers on this day, thank the doctors, nurses, nurses, assistants, paramedics and other health workers for their full year's work. Together, we are pleased that the stand and cooperation of the Kispestians prevented the medical institution, the clinic, from being taken away from the district; together we regret that the patronage service was taken from both Kőbány and Kispest; and together we are concerned that the general practitioners are working under increasingly difficult conditions and will receive only attacks from the health government instead of aid and support. However, there is also a particular reason why I am speaking today about Semmelweis Day in Parliament. 'Cause there's a place where management says Semmelweis Day isn't so important, and this is Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital. They understood: the head of the hospital decided that this year they would not celebrate Semmelweis Day in the traditional form, with the participation of all employees, and would not make this day a celebration for all the employees of the hospital. He decided that they didn't deserve the right word, thanks to the people of Kőbánya, the 17th. district workers and hospital workers working for the health of the surrounding agglomeration settlements and healing the people living there. While local authorities thank the people in health care for their persistent work, the management of the state hospital does not seem to consider this important. I could say I'm surprised, but I'm not. Unfortunately, the hospital's management over the past year has shown a number of signs that it ignores the work of the people working there. Before Easter, surgeons, paramedics, and other hospital workers were shocked to find that they were not paid their due overtime, because they had been delayed by a clearing trick a month later; that is to say, that they were not paid the whole amount, because they were trying to hold back even a significant part of their overtime with additional tricks, accounting and accounting solutions. Many of the workers feel that they do not get what they deserve. With such leadership attitude, of course, it is no wonder that workers, surgeons, assistants, caregivers, professionals and technical staff who perform critical tasks are quitting in a row. And from here on out, it's not just another fidesz boss ignoring the workers, the workers, but also putting the health of people in the East-Pest region at risk, getting out of surgery, the waiting lists are still growing, the patient's health is still under pressure. There's another case of knowledge of the hospital's management. A few weeks ago, it was found that valuable medical devices were stored in the building of the old hospital in Kőbánya without proper accommodation and security, and even patient documents, patient files, and personal data material. The fact is that this raises extremely serious problems both for the management of public assets and for the protection of personal data. It is memorable that when I asked you a year ago what your plan was for the state, the government, to build a vacant health home, the answer was not to worry, to think about it, until then the building was evacuated. Well, that's what you guys figured out in a year, congratulations. These cases also show the quality of public health management in Hungary today. Because the Ministry and the Hospital Directorate-General either don't know what's going on at Bajcsy Hospital, or if they do, they'll ignore it. The latter is likely, since I have already drawn attention to maladministration here in Parliament. The thing is, the government needed the hospitals, but it clearly can't control them properly. So allow me once again to thank you from this Parliament for the work of staff at Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital and other medical institutions in Kőbánya and Kispest, and I wish them a happy Semmelweis Day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-12-326	Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs, from the DK Group, also came forward after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-327	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Using Uncle Pista Besenyő's slogan, is this a nooormal situation in which the government is bringing in the hospitality industry in Miskolc and through them the guest group? I imagine that in the summer heat in the beach spa in Selymrét, it is not because the buffet is slow, but because the employee will be pampered with a fidesz administration system instead of serving the waiters quickly. Let's do this imaginary scene. The venue is a buffet at any point in Miskolc, and a family of four is standing in line and ordering: I'd like a smooth flame, a cheese, a sour cream and a cheese and sour cream; and I'd like a cottage cheese, a chocolate and two vanilla pancakes; two cans of beer, a bottle of mineral water and a cherry juice. One moment says the cafeteria, I'm just going to enter first the relevant date, the start and end of the order, payment information, the name of the ordered lot, the main and sub-category of NTAK, the gross price, the order number, the quantity and the VAT category. [[21.30]] Which means it won't be a moment until the customer gets his order. But what is NTAK? National Tourism Data Service Center, a modern digital data reporting system led by the Hungarian Tourism Agency, whose main goal is to increase the competitiveness of Hungarian tourism. National? Again, another Fidesz invention, which is all about complicating, chaos, confusion, distraction from important things. While domestic tourism workers are burdened by the government with a chaotic software system, they do not have time to walk the streets against the status law that cripples teachers and students, health care, better patient care; they do not have time to stand up, they cannot shout that with the inflation in Orbán that we are demanding affordable food prices and energy prices; and they cannot fight stagnating wages against low pensions. Modern? When the customer service takes much longer? When will you give a tremendous amount of extra work to the hosts? Entrepreneurship? When this amendment is all about bleaching the sector and it is not about helping. According to the reporting government building on communications lies, this system opens up new horizons for tourism development, creating more accurate forecasts and more efficient marketing communication, with the long-term aim of reaching my 50 million guest nights by 2030. Is this really how the government wants to help catering businesses? Are you aware of what the sector has been through? Pandemic and quarantine have put a huge burden on those working in hospitality and tourism who are temporarily without a living. Then, after a somewhat breathtaking summer, the tsunami of inflation in Orbán and the energy crisis arrived. A lot of places locked up on the main street of Miskolc and Miskolc. As self-regulating legislators, you stress that you want to help the sector, but the reality is to increase their frustration, because it is not enough that according to the legislation, the host has to register his business in NTAK, but must comply with a serious, nearly one million-dollar acquisition of software if he wants to provide data in the requested or forced manner from 1 July 2023, or soon. The question is that the hosts need another heavy help. The shadow government clearly sees the serious problem, and in this situation it is also able to give hope in the field of hospitality and tourism. It is necessary to abolish or reconsider the reporting obligation and to finance the acquisition of software by government or state. While Viktor Orbán increases prices, Klára Dobrev will increase wages and pensions. That's the real deal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-12-328	Mr Zoltán Varga, Member of the Democratic Coalition, will continue to speak after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-329	Madam President! Dear House, While the construction of Orbán's 100-billion-dollar dacha in 60 Puszta is nearing completion, and the Orbán family has also crossed the hundred-billion-dollar threshold on the end of May, with which he was able to join the NER-bass fair or unfair team, while the enrichment of NER's favors continues at a forced pace, the government is no longer giving money for fundamental investments. And that's true, too, in Debrecen, almost everything has already been announced, and for Debrecen it is important, Orbán stopped the large investment to improve the lives of the Debrecen people, but only battery factories can be built, but at least until the end. Well, so much for the promises in Orbán, so much for Debrecen being a prominent city of Fidesz importance, but so much for the Orbán vassal, anti-Debrecen mayor, or for the better days of Lajos Kósa's lobbying power, government influence. Technically, they're both zeroes and zeroes. Thus, even at fantasy level, there are not many investments, large investment plans that the Debrecen people have been waiting for for for decades. Among other things, route 35 between Debrecen-Józsa will not be quadrupled, but there will be no construction of the Debrecen-Józsa northern relief road, for example. It's okay. The yozsians will be in traffic for hours. The two faculty buildings of the University of Debrecen will not be renovated. They've been waiting for the renovation for about 50 years. But there is also a lack of remodeling or renovation of downtown Debrecen on Highway 4. The plans of the Eastern bypass road simply go to the trash can at the preparatory stage, even though it would be this road that would make Debrecen's transport possible in any way, since Romania is where the trucks are now raging downtown Debrecen, and obviously the Debrecen know that without this section of road, the city of permanent jams will be hopelessly left in Debrecen. And there won't be a refurbished railway overpass in Debrecen, the one-track road where there's been a lot of fatal accidents. Like the fog of the past, even though Debrecen was one of the capitals of handball not so long ago, even the possibility of building a handball hall. And what really hurts, besides the above, is one of the busiest railway lines in the country, you know, the failure to renovate the 100-rail line. Let's talk about this a little bit, because this is the pair of trains where, on average, every five minutes, there's a train, and this is the train tracks that practically, write and tell, cut through the city. This alone is a huge burden on the environment and noise of those living there. However, the fact that the railway divides Debrecent with several level crossings not only causes environmental and noise loads, but also literally and practically disables the city's traffic by closing the barriers continuously every five minutes. As a result, long, sometimes kilometers of motor vehicles are pouring smoke in front of the fences; this is exponential in the morning and afternoon rush hour traffic. All this, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, is happening in the 21st century. in the middle of Europe, in the heart of a European city, every day, about every five minutes. Orbán also plans to keep it that way, despite all the promises, and even at the end of the pro-government pledges, especially during election campaigns, that we are now going to build this. They're not gonna build it! That leaves the dust, the stench of fuel, the capital of endless plugs in Debrecen. He stays, I tell you, until the Dobrev government soon restores faith to our city and its people. Instead of propaganda and empty promises and withdrawn plans, you can build a European metropolitan city, all you need is strong will, good governance, common sense and a city that loves the Debrecens. Clara and I are going to give this to Debrecen. I can promise you that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-12-330	Mr János Bencze, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-scheduled speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-12-331	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, What's happening here, what's happening in this country? As an agricultural politician from Jobbik-Conservatives, I am getting more and more phone calls from Hungarian farmers, decent Hungarian farmers, who thought, as their parents and grandparents thought after 1990, that they would be able to make a living from the ground, like their ancestors before socialism. Well, here comes the point where Fidesz managed to destroy the entire Hungarian agriculture with its interventions, especially the plant-growing sector. Let's see what happens. As he released the Ukrainian grain, cheap grain, the grain which was recognised by the Fidesz people as being of inadequate quality, to the liking of the Fidesz merchants, he managed to drop the crop prices at such a level that arable crops in Hungary are slowly becoming loss-making. We have the barley harvest season on our necks, 10-14 days or in places where it stretches a little, 21 days, and barley must be harvested, entered into warehouses, in front of the dryers, and sold. [[21.40]] Our farmers ask about crop merchants, they get unspeakable prices on how much good - hearted merchants would take over the grain from them. Most of them are the oligarch of NER. There was a place in Jászság where they promised 3000 forints on the phone, but the best price was 4600 forints. It is easy to calculate: at least 400 thousand forints per hectare of barley is the cost of cultivation, and there is no harvest in this. In the case of good crops, six tons per hectare come down. This alone is a net loss. We can count in different ways. As many farmers as I asked, everyone said that the loss of the barley is from HUF 150,000 to HUF 200,000 per hectare. They won't be able to produce, they won't be able to make money. We'll be getting sarcastic comments from Fidesz trolls about farmers in comments during posts. So what will that mean for the commentators? Hungarian farmers are now faced with the situation that has lost the meaning of the honey business that Fidesz has been pulling in front of them, that Hungarian agriculture will be a success story. Now the world will show that there will be no success story, and it will depend only on Hungary and will depend on it. What fate awaits Hungarian farmers, and what fate awaits the Hungarian countryside? Here is the first point: the Fidesz government also announced the auction of the rest of the state's land, and it is clear who will bid on it, who will buy it. The Hungarian farmer who produces losses, who has worked decently, has worked hard, he will not buy an orphan square meter, but the news shows who is applying for land and who has money. The daughter of our dear Prime Minister, Orbán Ráhel Tokajhegyalján and his partner, István Tiborcz, as we interrupt from the news, bought land for nearly 600 million HUF in the agricultural state where most farmers think about survival. There will be one fate for the Hungarian countryside and Hungary: the oligarchs of NER, the Orbán family, will buy all the land. But what about the people who live there? Péter Szijjártó explained this, not here, but in China: another battery plant will come somewhere. Where will the new battery factory come, as usual? In an already existing industrial center, to force people to settle there, they must move there, and the Hungarian countryside, thus losing its vital power, will be depopulated, and there will be no obstacle to the new Hungarian grand estate system, where some large owners of Fidesz will try to produce in competition with Ukrainian giant estates. But, as the examples show, whatever the fidesz oligarchs buy, whatever the Fidesz touches, because they never worked in life, they didn't come from the real world of work, but in 1990 they, together with the other system change parties, dropped into Parliament from the university benches, colleges, KISZ, the Communist Party, without ever working, unable to run anything. They have already ruined the Hungarian countryside, and they will destroy it even more in the future. It doesn't have to be a good thing that in 10 years' time, in 2033, those sitting here in the Hungarian Parliament, if they let the opposition in at all, will be faced with a Hungary where the countryside will be devastated at such a level that, in essence, no one will live beyond a few old people, and the remaining Hungarians, that part of the country, will settle around the battery factories, and Fidesz will have the dream that their great estates will rule the country. There's one thing you can do about it. What can be done is that people think about what fidesz promises have been fulfilled, write down on a white paper, and describe what has never been achieved, and make their decisions on this basis. No matter who they vote for, just not this band. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-06-12-332	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda, thank you for your work, and the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
