u2023-04-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 14th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Béla Mihálffy and Dániel Z. Karpát will assist me in leading this meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, It follows the XXXIII of 2016 on the state project evaluation relationship and the amendment of certain related laws. Act and Act CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/3516. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Latorcai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Regional Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2023-04-13-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is of the utmost importance for the Government of Hungary to use the available development resources as efficiently as possible, with a view to protecting the national and EU budgets, especially for the benefit of Hungarian families and Hungarian people. The achievement of this objective is a priority not only for the 2014-2020 programming period, but also for the resources made available in the 2021-27 programming period and under the Instrument for Restoration and Resistance. In order to fully achieve this, the Government established the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate, taking into account the commitments set out in the measures taken to the European Commission. The tasks and powers of the Management Board have been defined by law in the manner agreed with the European Commission. The Management Board shall regularly verify the content of declarations of conflict of interest and interest made by participants in the implementation of programmes using Union grants, on the basis of sampling, from the 15th day of 2022 no-vember. The powers of the Management Board cover national authorities involved in the implementation of EU funds, but due to the specificities of the Hungarian development policy institution system, public project evaluators, who also participate in the implementation of the EU budget, are not part of the national authorities. For the use of EU funds, the content of aid applications submitted by local and regional authorities and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises will be criticised by public project evaluators. This system has proven to provide objective, transparent and independent evaluation conditions for each project. A State Project Appraisal may be a person who is XXXIII of 2016 on the status of State Project Appraisal and on the amendment of certain related laws. It fulfils the conditions laid down in law, which are based on the fact that it must have a fundamental right in a public body. The state project evaluation system, which is part of the development policy institutional system, currently consists of more than 1700 experts. The project evaluation system has proven its effectiveness, effectiveness, transparency and independence in recent years, as I have said, and has been confirmed on several occasions by the European Commission. From 15 November 2022, the Implementing Regulations for Union Development Programmes also require public project evaluators to make a general declaration of conflict of interest and a declaration of interest at the time of the establishment of a public project evaluation relationship or prior to the commencement of their public project evaluation activities. The purpose of this bill is to lay down rules on data management and procedures in respect of declarations of conflict of interest and declarations of interest to be made by public project evaluators. The amendment is also justified by the inclusion of a statement on personal relations related to the establishment of conflicts of interest, which effectively supports it, in order to better protect the EU budget. With the amendments, Hungary can make the audit and control mechanisms more effective to ensure the correct use of EU funds. The amendments therefore serve the proper use of EU funds by submitting a general statement of conflict of interest and a declaration of interest to the public project evaluators when establishing a public project evaluation relationship. The bill also provides that the persons who are currently in the state project evaluation relationship should also submit their declarations following the entry into force of the amendment. They shall do so within 60 days of the entry into force. If the valuer fails to submit the declarations by the deadline, it shall be requested to replace them by a five-day deadline. If neither the valuer subsequently submits the declarations, the public project valuer's relationship shall cease by virtue of the law. The bill also lays down the necessary rules for the processing of statements and their content. In order to better identify conflicts of interest cases carried out by the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate, taking into account the Financial Regulation of the European Union and the Commission's guidance, it has become necessary to request and verify statements concerning personal relations between those involved in the implementation of the European Union budget, by amending the Law on Government Administration. As a result of the amendment, it was also necessary to state the status of public project reviewer that the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate could also request and manage statements on the personal relations of public project evaluators. Dear House, The bill also contains additional proposals that meet practical needs. The amendment of the Act on Government Administration includes a general authorisation clause in order to protect the European Union's financial interests and to fulfil Hungary's commitment. On this basis, the Government may provide for additional tasks for the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate at regulation level in such a way that its elementary independence is neither compromised nor jeopardises the performance of its previous tasks. The amendment to the Law on State Project Evaluation also proposes that the Minister responsible for agricultural policy have the possibility to set out in a ministerial regulation the scope of the calls in which the application of the State Project Evaluation Scheme is mandatory, given that the maintenance of the State Project Assessment used in the evaluation of the content of investment aid co-financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, which is the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, is also justified in the programming period 2023-2027. It is also noted that the unique identification number of the State project evaluation application is to be kept confidential. Unless otherwise provided for by law, it shall not be brought to the attention of a third party. The proposal also states that the tax number should not be included in the declarations necessary for the establishment of a public project evaluation relationship. [[9.10]] We also stated in the bill that the employer's certificate issued by the employer in the context of a fundamental rights relationship should further allow the employer to include the employer's salary or wages on the certificate in accordance with the document on the establishment of a new fundamental rights relationship. By default, the employer shall indicate the salary or salary fixed for the month preceding the date of issue of the certificate. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian government prioritises the protection of national and EU budgets, as well as the proper implementation of proposals funded from European Union funds, which serve as much added value as possible to improve the quality of life of Hungarian settlements, businesses and, through this, Hungarian families, as well as the further economic development of Hungary. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in order to achieve all these objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-13-2	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Boglárka Elijah, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In the bill before us, we are discussing the amendment of two laws; as has already been said, the XXXIII of 2016 on the state project evaluation status and the amendment of certain related laws. CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration amendment of law. By amending the laws, the aim is clear, and this must be to establish a new regulatory framework that is exemplary for other EU Member States in order to increase transparency, effectiveness and efficiency. Of course, it is also a priority to ensure consistency with the laws that have already been adopted, which have entered into force, so that we take a further step towards drawing on EU funds, which is rightfully the people of Hungary, and for which the government and Parliament, at least on the part of the Fidesz faction, will do everything we can. At present, there are more than 1700 people who have already successfully completed professional knowledge and exams, so their knowledge has been proven through this, and they have an additional task in addition to their basic tasks, in the public project evaluation system, to whom, I believe, we all owe thanks not only to local authorities or to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as beneficiaries. We thank you for your commitment and commitment to make the most effective, efficient and efficient use of EU funds, as far as possible, as possible and as effective as possible, as demonstrated in the previous development cycle. But what does that mean in numbers? Since its existence in 2016, more than 117 thousand evaluation tasks have been carried out. So like the scale of the task, the responsibility involved, I believe, is indisputable. And I also think that it is clear from their work that while the EU average of EU funds calls is 77.4 per cent for the 2014 and 2020 cycles, in Hungary 85.5 per cent. For this reason, I believe that it is necessary and will receive what is necessary for them to receive some additional remuneration, support, which is an average gross HUF 41,000. At the same time, it is also important to ensure their impartiality and freedom from influence, as this is also related to the performance of their task. It is therefore already important to stress that the establishment of a project evaluation relationship is still a condition of a declaration of assets obligation and compliance with national security control. In addition, public project evaluators shall, when adopting each task, declare, in the knowledge of their criminal liability, that there is no conflict of interest with regard to the task to be assessed and undertake not to be in conflict. These ad hoc statements are those which, since 15 November 2022, have been accompanied by a declaration of general conflict of interest and interest by public project evaluators, as the State Secretary has already referred to. The fact that this system is functioning, that it has already proven itself and that it has been successful in carrying out audits is also evidence that the functioning of the system was assessed as good practice by the audit of the European Court of Auditors for the management of conflicts of interest in 2021. The independence of the system and any conflicts of interest were also monitored, examined and clearly found by the European Commission for the operational programme for territorial and urban development. So I think that we can all find that we can also confirm in this House that neither the European Commission nor the Hungarian actors have been able to attack the functioning of the system. However, what justifies the amendment, or perhaps really justifies it, is the European Union Financial Regulation and the Commission's Guidelines on the avoidance of conflicts of interest, which makes it necessary, and here also the need to ask for statements on the participants' personal relations, and this proposal also aims to address the possibilities of extending the role of the Management Board, on which Mr Secretary of State spoke in detail, and I therefore do not wish to repeat what has already been said. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support, like the Fidesz Group, the bill before us, in order to create an even more stable, even more transparent, even more effective, practical and effective system. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-13-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The problem is much deeper than in this proposal: the problem is that EU funds do not come to Hungary. And the reason the EU money doesn't come is because the whole system is corrupt. It is possible to undress and uncover, put various smaller or larger rules into the system, even in the tendering system, to entrust new people with conflict of interest rules and declarations of assets, to try to legitimise this system, but overall, the whole system is based on corruption and theft. The European Union therefore decided not to give us EU funds. This is a terrible problem for Hungary, and the fact that it is so is the sin of the Orbán government. Without these funds, Hungary's financial security and economic development are questionable, to say the least. We see inflation figures, we see the budget deficit, in general the twin deficit and all kinds of problems that appear in the Hungarian financial system and in the Hungarian economic system. In addition, the Orbán government voluntarily took on a regulation to submit by 31 March the legislative proposals by which it will vote on these so-called cornerstones with Parliament. But that didn't happen either. So the Orbán government has not even fulfilled its own commitments in the matter of EU funds arriving in Hungary. So here we are, local governments, Hungarian companies, small and medium-sized enterprises waiting for EU money to arrive. And here the Orbán government is trying to sprinkle some sort of talcum powder on a huge gaping wound, so that this story would be okay. No, it is not okay, the Hungarian legal system, the Hungarian freedom of the press is not okay, and that is why the European Union is punishing the Orbán government by not sending EU funds. There's a lot more to be done to get these money here. [[9.20]] It would be in all Hungarian interests that these funds should arrive, which is what the Democratic Coalition would like, but unfortunately, the Orbán government seems completely inadequate to do so. Therefore, this proposal in this form cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-6	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-7	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/3516. The purpose of the bill is to lay down rules on data management and procedures in respect of declarations of conflict of interest and declarations of interest to be made by public project evaluators on the status of State project evaluation and on the amendment of certain related laws XXXIII. by amending the law. In view of the above, the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration is necessary. In addition, the amendment of certain provisions concerning the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate, taking into account the fact that, under the current rules, BEII's competence covers all national authorities involved in the implementation of the European Union budget, i.e. that public project evaluators are not subject to control by the Management Board. The Kit. further changes are required to require the request for and verification of declarations of personal relations of those involved in the implementation of the EU budget in order to better identify conflicts of interest carried out by BEII. Obviously, I do not wish to repeat what was said by the Secretary of State of Csaba Latorca and the keynote speech by my fellow Member Illés Boglárka, but I think it is important to stress that it is also noted in the Apjt. that it is necessary to make a general declaration of conflict of interest and a declaration of interest at the same time as the establishment of a public project evaluation relationship, and that it will also be included in the text of the law that the employer of the State project evaluation relationship manages the declarations. The Abbey. You'll get a reference back to the Kit. the part with which BEII's tasks are supplemented as described above. I must also respond to the keynote speech of our colleague Zsolt Gréczy DK. Congressman rejects this bill by not bringing EU funds to Hungary. Well, Congressman, I recall that these questions were completely discussed in front of this House just yesterday and the day before yesterday, and it became clear, not only as a result of the negotiations, but also as a result of our debates, the fact that it is precisely because of you and your so-called dollar-sided side that these resources are not coming to Hungary. Look at your own party president's statement. What did Ferenc Gyurcsány say about this? Well, then, to argue that we're not gonna get the money, well, that's more than unworthy. Returning specifically to regulation: Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the regulation is to further strengthen the proper use of EU funds. Therefore, this further reinforcement is the focus. On this basis, KDNP's parliamentary group supports T/3516. I still do not understand the fact that the opposition can now talk about DK, why the head speaker of DK does not want to further strengthen the rule of law and the free use of resources in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Komjathi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, What you pro-government representatives do not mean is that the opposition's comments in the European Union, in Brussels, are being analysed, raised, and used as a basis for drawing EU funds. In particular, the reason we don't get EU money is because you can't handle it when you see public money, when you see EU money, and you want to put it in your pocket either by your family members or by your friends or by your own oligarchs. However, it is very important for us that these EU funds come. It is extremely important, because we see where your misguided economic policy has put the country, where it has put the workers. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party will do everything in its power to make these EU funds come. If there are proposals that we can support, we will support them for the benefit of employees, Hungarian workers and Hungarian people. This proposal is also eligible. But there are some that don't. I'll tell you what our comments on this matter are. The planned changes serve regular access to EU funds, their intended use, and extend the scope of the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate. That's good, isn't it? However, the question is still how the rules of law will be implemented in practice. Furthermore, the question is that these amendments will be sufficient to convince the European Union to start paying the financial resources previously allocated to Hungary. And it is not negligible why the conflict of interest rules of this amendment were left out by the government in the course of its actions and legislation so far. These issues will therefore continue, but this proposal can be supported. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Balassa, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House of Parliament, It is possible to speak as a general speaker. The detailed debate will be discussed in the Committee on European Affairs, where the subject of this agenda can be broken down in detail. This is the third time we have before us the proposal to amend this 2016 law, and we will now be discussing the third amendment of the law. We are now discussing the proposal after the revision in 2016, 2018 and 2020. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). Law created a public project evaluation relationship with a view to an objective, transparent assessment of certain projects using EU funds and independent of the interests of market participants. According to the law, the content assessment of aid applications can be carried out by professionals who have some kind of state fundamental rights. According to the law, this includes government and civil servants and civil servants employed by the central government administration and its regional and local bodies, local authorities, state higher education institutions and civil servants. In the process of selecting the evaluator, independence, non-influence, the application of strict conflict of interest rules are decisive for the proper use of EU funds. This is particularly important for us because OLAF, according to the annual report of the EU Anti-Fraud Office, is at the forefront of the number of projects contested. In the debate on the bill, Jobbik then concluded that the law would create a necessary instrument, but that it would not be able to do so reliably in the form submitted, and therefore will not support its adoption. That was then. In 2020, technical amendments were made to the law. This was necessary because the government side created the so-called model-shifting higher education institutions, which were thus removed from the public institutional circle, and as a result the professionals working here could not have been project evaluators. Jobbik agreed with the correction of this and further technical amendments, but stayed in the final vote because there was no substantive change in the content of it in 2020. And we came to this day, 2023, when we were discussing the third round of this proposal. Compliance with EU expectations has become an economic issue, as it is a condition for releasing funds. This is reflected in the current amendment, above all in the rules on conflicts of interest. The data recorded on the evaluator shall also be supplemented by information on the provision of a general declaration of conflict of interest, a declaration of interest, a declaration of ad hoc conflict of interest and a statement of confidentiality. The law extends the powers of the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate. It has become necessary to request statements on personal relations between those involved in the implementation of the European Union budget, to verify it, and to amend the legal consequences in the event of incorrect disclosure. The Jobbik will support this bill. We hope that the revision of the legal institution for project evaluation will meet the EU's requirements, and that will no longer prevent the country from obtaining the funds it deserves. [[9.30]] We also hope that the amended law will actually facilitate the proper use of aid instruments, the prevention of corruption, although let us add: the safest way of doing so is that you do not have the intention of corruption. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-12	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor first to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group.
u2023-04-13-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to respond to the words of my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, who was trying to present the picture here, as if the Democratic Coalition were so extremely successful in preventing EU funds from coming. You overestimate the political power of the Democratic Coalition. If you say that DK can stop this, DK has more power in European politics than the Orbán government, because the Orbán government would obviously be working to bring these money home. No, it's not that. The Democratic Coalition wants EU funds to arrive. To this end, all previous government and Fidesz measures implementing the dismantling of corruption and the rule of law and the freedom of the press must be removed. If investigations had been launched on OLAF's recommendations, for example, it would have helped. Otherwise, it would also help to bring EU funds home if Hungarian diplomacy did not talk about our European allies in the same way that it does this every day, including yesterday the United States. So you have to see how you talk about the Swedes, the Finns, the Dutch, the French, and I could tell you a long time ago that everyone here has become our enemy, so it will be difficult to bring these EU funds home. So what's going on here is that we're doing a little work on some system, it's small, little, thin, skinny, as Mihály Fazekas says in the Goudas Matyi. So I think that we should build a much more effective system and, above all, non-corruption, that is what I would suggest to the ruling parties, and then the EU funds would arrive. True, this would also mean that the pillars of the Orbán system would waver, so you do not want to bring EU money home, because the system is more important than EU money. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglarka, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that both Mr. Secretary of State and myself have tried to concentrate on the bill as the first lead speaker, but we cannot let it go without saying that I see you trying to increase your blood pressure with another campaign of lies here in Parliament instead of morning coffee. By confirming the words of my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, allow me to quote your party president, Ference Gyurcsány, whose speech could be heard by the Hungarian people as well, and what we have already said, it has become clear to the Hungarian people that it is indeed you who wish to make it impossible for Hungarian people's legitimate resources to arrive in Hungary. What did your party president say a few days ago? The Union said that you will receive money if you eliminate NER, only this one is dressed in such a legal robe. That's what he said, literally. I think that if you ask for a word twice, first as a lead speaker and then within a two-minute speech, and you deny it, it is shameful. I am also following Mr Imre Komjáthi's speeches, I was surprised that you supported DK and the President of DK and began to explain the certificate that Ferenc Gyurcsány made clear. You may not have read this, you may not have heard it, but I have read it to you, too, so please look it up, because this is a confession from Ferenc Gyurcsány, so that you will do everything you can to ensure that EU funds do not arrive in Hungary. I also recommend the bill to DK. I feel that you have not read this because you have not responded at all, you have not reflected, although I am not surprised at it, because if we look at it, then the laws concerned were not supported even when they were adopted, so if it had been up to you, then the public project evaluation relationship would not exist today, and 1700 people would not be able to help the effective use of EU funds through it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Komjathi, MSZP Group, in two minutes.
u2023-04-13-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am not worried about Ferenc Gyurcsány, nor about the Democratic Coalition, not even the Hungarian Socialist Party. For whom I am concerned, for the workers and workers who have sent me to Parliament, and I am concerned because if these EU funds do not come and I stress once again: it is your responsibility to come, you have been on the government with two thirds since 2010, so if these resources do not come, the workers, the workers, the pensioners, the people who have built this country, who are taking this country on their backs, who are running this country. That is why I ask you to do everything you can to ensure that these EU funds come, that all the instruments are in your hands. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Gréczy, Member of the DK Group, asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to respond to the words of Buttercup Elijah. The Prime Minister of the country is not Ferenc Gyurcsány, but Viktor Orbán. When Ferenc Gyurcsány was Prime Minister, EU funds came and there was no OLAF procedure and there was no sanctions against the Hungarian economy. It is now when Viktor Orbán is Prime Minister. The whole system is built on corruption, that's the basic problem. To unravel a bill, and through a project system, to act as if everything has been done now, and to come with EU money, not! The leaders of the European Union, the members of the European Parliament, were sick of the fact that the euros they produced were brought home by your friends, relatives, friends and oligarchs. They've had enough of this. They were not fed up with what the Gyurcsány government, Ferenc Gyurcsány or Klára Dobrev said in Brussels, representing Hungarian interests. Hungary has no interest in a government where there is corruption, which has abolished the rule of law, and when it is governed, EU funds do not come, thus destroying Imre Komjathi's words, I join local governments, businesses, employers and employees. Technically, they are destroying the entire Hungarian economy by not being able to bring home EU money. Don't steal, and the money will come home. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglarka, Fidesz Group, in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond to the arrival of EU funds during the governance of Ferenc Gyurcsány. There was also a development cycle between 2007 and 2013, probably also known to you. For economic development, you wanted to spend only 17 percent of your resources. On the other hand, I think it is worth looking at the extent to which economic development was possible and in what form businesses could benefit from it, even in the subsequent development cycle. And the other thing is also very important: we are talking about the development cycle between 2007 and 2013 in 2010, thanks to the confidence and wisdom of the Hungarian people, there was a change of government, and until 2010, only 12 percent of the funds were called off. If it had been up to you, we wouldn't have had access to those sources; you might have had access to them, maybe your party partners, maybe your party president, but certainly not the Hungarian people, because 12 percent of them were called off. It is precisely due to the change of government in 2010 that a much more effective, practical and effective system has been developed, and thanks to this, as I have already said, we are able to draw down a greater level of resources than the EU average. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-22	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group, in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-23	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After the keynote speech, I did not wish to comment, but I am obliged to respond to what our colleague Zsolt Gréczy said, with the voice of rejection. I must reject it, I must categorically reject it, because what our fellow Member Zsolt Gréczy said is not factual, it does not correspond to reality. Because as far as the facts go, that's exactly the opposite. The opposite, because Hungary has a rule of law, there is freedom of speech in Hungary, and this rule of law and freedom of speech is extremely important to us, Member. That's why we fought, so we led freedom fights, fought by our ancestors. These forces could be those forces on the far right or on the far left, which have ever pushed Hungary into a dictatorship; they were the opponents of the Hungarian rule of law and freedom of speech, and they were never the civil force. [[9.40]] We are building a civil Hungary, a national Christian Hungary, and we are not successors to an anti-democratic party that denied this, and which wished Hungary only wrong in terms of the rule of law. Otherwise, I would remind you again that if it were true that no matter how much we steal, the country would not progress as wonderfully as it has evolved over the past 12 years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches in the normal time frame. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy for a two-minute speech in this new two-minute session. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let us make it clear once again: EU funds came during the Gyurcsány government, EU funds did not come during the Orbán government. So Illés Boglárka here can smear all sorts of time-related numbers, then the money came, there was no EU procedure against Hungary, now it starts, and the money is not coming. This is what employers, workers, municipalities are waiting for, and you can't bring these money home, that's the problem. On the other issue, I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey. I'm glad you're not successors to any old repressive party, but your party is desecrating the new poster that showed up on the streets yesterday that Russians are coming home! You said immediately that this poster was unacceptable. Well, then, don't make too much reference to Hungarian freedom fights. And speaking of successor parties, it is difficult to forget that the lines of Fidesz and KDNP are significantly full of former MSZMP members. So you may not take on this kind of community as a party, but in the various cycles of the Orbán government, many MSZMP members are currently wearing Sharji, who was previously a member of the State Party, not even in a small position. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-26	Thank you. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, I believe that Mr Gréczy withdraws his speech in the normal time frame. I would like to ask if someone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On Dr. Csaba Latorcai's mark:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-04-13-27	Yeah. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I thank the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP for their support for the bill, so that the funds for Hungary, the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses will arrive in Hungary as soon as possible. As to Mr Gréczy's speeches, I do not understand you. While here in the House of the country, it is constantly being said and urged that EU funds arrive in the country as soon as possible, no proposals have been voted on and it seems from its comments that they will not vote on what is necessary in the context of the agreement with the European Commission to receive the funds. Because, Congressman, all the proposals that the Government has submitted to Parliament so far, however much it objects to them, contain the requests of the European Commission, the implementation of which the Government has accepted and has undertaken. This is what the European Commission has asked for, nothing more, nothing less, we have undertaken this, we have implemented it, and we will continue to implement it. So I do not understand you, but I could say that I would not understand you if your leader, the leader of the dollar left, Ferenc Gyurcsány himself had not told me that you were not really interested in Hungary, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian entrepreneurs, finally getting what is rightfully due to them, but in something else. Allow me to quote Ference Gyurcsány, the leader of the dollar left, who said on Facebook a few days ago: "We are going to face Orbán's government. We're putting pressure on him where and as best we can. Yes, we have worked to give the European Union conditions that break it down, or at least weaken Orbán. - Mr. Speaker! Tell me what your real purpose is. Isn't it just that the funds that are otherwise due to Hungary under the law are being transferred to your financiers? I would like to draw your attention to another statement by Ferenc Gyurcsány, not on Facebook, but on one radio about how they are trying to do this mine work against Hungarian people. I would like to quote:. This is so that our extremely active Members of the European Parliament are constantly discussing and doing their work with the people of the European Parliament and the European Commission. They are trying to understand what is happening in Hungary. It's a lot of work. In fact, we know there is a lot of work to be done in the mine. By the way, allow me, honourable Member Komjathi, to thank you for your concern and for the supportive attitude that I thought I might have heard in your speech, and I hope that this time you will vote in favour of the bill, because so far everything that was needed to bring back EU funds has been voted down. And let me also thank Jobbik for his supportive attitude, because so far Jobbik has not been able to support the proposals needed to bring EU funds home as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, Let me conclude, then, that the aim of the bill before you is to strengthen the audit and control mechanisms used in the use of EU funds in order to protect the EU budget. This is why we are proposing amendments to the Law on Government Administration and the Law on State Project Evaluation and on the amendment of certain related laws. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in order to achieve all these objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-28	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/3513. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Latorcai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Regional Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2023-04-13-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary has implemented a number of reforms over the past year that contribute to improving the efficiency of domestic public procurement and increasing transparency. It can be said that Hungary's public procurement performance falls into the same category as the best performing Member States on the basis of the latest figures published by the European Commission, and it is important to mention that the proportion of single offer procedures shows a downward trend. It is also important to point out that 80% of domestic public procurement was won by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[9.50]] In the continuing domestic public procurement competition, the proportion of contracts won by small and medium-sized enterprises is in the best category in the list of Member States on the basis of the Internal Market Scoreboard published by the Commission. The bill before you contains amendments to several elements of public procurement legislation with a view to fully complying with the new EU legislation and practice and to remedy a number of problems that have arisen in practice in the application of domestic law. The bill contains several elements that help to combat illegal behaviour. The new rules on ex officio redress periods help control bodies to act more effectively against infringements while respecting legal certainty; a new reason for failure to provide protection to contracting entities against abusive competitive behaviour. Certain parts of the modification elements are linked to EU legal obligations. In addition to the additional regulatory need for the implementation of two new EU regulations, the introduction of new EU so-called e-hirds and adaptation to certain rules of the Remedies Directive justify amendments. In addition, the proposal includes additional changes to the application of the public procurement acquis and to practical needs, including more efficient public finance management. The proposal includes a number of regulatory elements that can facilitate more efficient, faster and more flexible implementation of public procurement procedures. Dear House, The 2015 CXLIII on public procurement The main elements of the amendment to the Act are as follows. 1. In order to prevent over-pricing and to better manage public funds, the failure to declare the procedure ineffective will be introduced, even if, taking into account the pricing of the most favourable offer, a contract would seriously violate the requirement for efficient and responsible management. In the light of the principle of proportionality resulting from Union law, the tenderer should be given the opportunity to demonstrate the proportionality of the proposed price or its component before the procedure is declared ineffective. 2. Restoration of the legality of public procurement procedures will become more flexible in cases where this is detected by the contracting authority after the outcome of the procedure has been transmitted, or in the course of the request for a preliminary dispute settlement, it recognises a breach of public procurement rules. In the past, the Public Procurement Act only allowed the contracting authority to carry out so-called criticism actions once the summary was sent out, on the basis of a preliminary dispute settlement or the determination of the supporting or control body. By removing these barriers, the contracting authority will be able to remedy the errors discovered on its own initiative, so that certain infringements can be more effectively rectified without the need to initiate an appeal procedure. 3. The rule published in the Emergency Government Decree under which a contract concluded under a framework agreement or a dynamic purchasing system does not apply the 10-day contract moratorium is incorporated into the Public Procurement Act. This will help the contracting authority to conclude a contract quickly on the basis of effective purchasing techniques in the current economic situation. At the same time, the possibility of leaving the moratorium is linked to the fact that, if the contracting authority decides to conclude contracts without waiting for the moratorium period, the infringements affecting the result entail the nullity of the contract. 4. On the basis of the amendment, provisions to facilitate the implementation of the mandatory applicable rules for contracting authorities laid down in the directly applicable acts of the European Union adopted last year will be laid down in the Public Procurement Act. One of the two Union Regulations lays down rules on access to the Union's public procurement and concession markets for third-country economic operators, goods and services, and on access to third-country public procurement and concession markets for Union economic operators, goods and services, while the other lays down provisions on foreign aid distorting the internal market. 5. The procurement arbitration panel may be initiated by the bodies defined by law on its own initiative. For time-limits open to the initiative of an ex officio procedure, the applicable law on public procurement also laid down subjective and objective deadlines. However, in practical application, some bodies entitled to the ex officio initiative were confronted with the fact that their initiatives submitted were often deemed to be too late; one of the reasons for this is that the date of access to knowledge for certain control bodies is seriously difficult to determine. In order to resolve the legal anomalies that have arisen in relation to the deadlines open to the initiative of ex officio redress proceedings, the proposal abolishes the rules on subjective time limits for the initiation of proceedings and sets only objective time limits for ex officio remedies. The amendment also introduces a new special rule, specifically in cases where an organisation, such as the body controlling public procurement from EU funds, conducts a specific statutory audit or procedure. The purpose of this new regulation is to ensure that infringements established by the audit bodies can be brought before the Public Procurement Decision Committee within a sufficiently short period of time, in order to avoid that such initiatives are deemed to be delayed due to earlier deadlines established for the date of access to knowledge. Dear Parliament, The government also aims at protecting families, pensioners, the economy and jobs, as well as at safeguarding Hungary's safety in these dangerous times. The bill before you fits these objectives, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, in view of what has been said, that the T/3513 on the amendment of the Public Procurement Act be amended. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-13-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2023-04-13-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2015 CXLIII on public procurement on the table of this House. Many of the elements of the proposal to amend law are related to Hungary's obligations arising from its membership of the European Union. The proposal sets out certain detailed rules relating to the access of third-country economic operators, goods and services to the Union's public procurement and concession markets and the access of Union economic operators, goods and services to third-country public procurement and concession markets. Some changes to the time limits for redress also serve to ensure that domestic legislation is fully adapted by the legislator to the relevant EU legislation. Dear House, The proposal includes a number of regulatory elements that promote more efficient, faster and more flexible implementation of public procurement procedures and promote more efficient public finance management. Over the past year, the government has implemented a number of reforms that contribute to improving the efficiency and transparency of domestic public procurement. For example, in February 2022 a government regulation was issued on measures to reduce the number of single tender procurements. Last autumn's amendment to the Public Procurement Act strengthened the rules on conflicts of interest in the Public Procurement Act and provided for the disclosure of data on contracts concluded with subcontractors. The Integrity Authority has established important powers in the field of public procurement. An e-procurement system has been developed to publicise public procurement data in machine-processing formats. [[10.00]] A performance measurement framework for measuring the effectiveness of public procurement was also established and the first analysis based on it was published on 28 February 2023. On 31 March 2023 the Government's Action Plan on measures to increase the level of competition in public procurement for the period 2023-26 was published. Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal is to mention the fact that, in order to prevent over-prices and to manage them more effectively with public funds, the reason for failure is introduced, according to which the contracting authority may declare the procedure ineffective even if, taking into account the pricing of the most favourable offer, the contract would seriously violate the requirement of efficient and responsible management. Before declaring the procedure ineffective, in the light of the principle of proportionality resulting from Union law, the tenderer should be given the opportunity to demonstrate the proportionality of the proposed price or its component. It will become more flexible to restore the legality of public procurement procedures where this is detected by the contracting authority after transmission of the effectiveness of the procedure or if, in the course of the request for a preliminary dispute settlement, it recognises a breach of public procurement rules. In the past, the Public Procurement Act only allowed the contracting authority to re-cry after sending the summary on the basis of a preliminary dispute settlement or the determination of the supporting control body. By removing these barriers, the contracting authority will be able to correct the errors discovered on its own initiative, so that they can be more effective in resolving each infringement without bringing about an appeal procedure. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the bill before us contains amendments to several elements of public procurement legislation with the clear aim of fully complying with EU legislation and practice and addressing several problems that arise in practice in the application of domestic law. On this basis, I believe that the proposal contains forward-looking provisions, which is why I call on my fellow Members to support the proposal, in the light of what has been said, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-13-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The problem is about the same as in the previous topics: it is a general rule of law problem that hinders the arrival of EU funds for Hungary. These are general rule of law and I must now say that diplomatic problems with such legislation are very difficult, virtually impossible to remedy. In the case of public procurement, I have been told several times by the rapporteur and the representative of Fidesz that over-pricing should be curbed. This is a confession to the fact that these overpriced things existed so far. Therefore, according to the Democratic Coalition, once again, the problem is that the public procurement system cannot generally be absolved and resolved, but that the whole system needs to be improved. We're going to make some suggestions. A system should be developed which is a single control system and which manages the entire procurement process in a holistic manner. Risk-based control methodologies need to be developed from domestic and EU audit practices at all points of the process by applying effective solutions and by fully coordinating the methodologies used. In order to ensure effective enforcement of the rules on conflicts of interest, a control system should be established for contracting entities, the provisions governing which should also be laid down in the procurement rules. In addition to public procurement, it is appropriate to regulate this under a comprehensive system. The Hungarian conflict of interest provisions are fragmented today, there is no uniform legal definition or legal regulation. The concept of conflict of interest appears in some 25-30 separate laws. While sanctions exist, there is no single supervisory body, there is no real deterrent. The current laws define conflict of interest rules at different depths, and it is not typical to refer to each other. In order to participate in public procurement, the operation of uniform integrity systems is essential both on the contracting authority's and on the contractor's side. Effective, timely effective monitoring of these and consistent sanctions for their absence would also be necessary. Increasing competition is essential for the efficient functioning of the public procurement system, which would require a further reduction in the proportion of the recommended procedures. Both the previous ones and the development of the redress system, it is necessary to facilitate the effective analysis of public procurement-related databases in general. A further increase in the weight of the preliminary dispute settlement procedure would therefore be an important part of the transformation. Unfortunately, they are lacking in this system, and I say that the fundamental problem is general and political. So there is a democracy deficit in Hungary, which is why EU money is not coming. The leaders of the EU countries see that this system cannot be well remedied by public procurement procedures; they simply fear the money paid by their own taxpayers in the EU countries from the fact that they are being tracked here and there. So the whole system would have to be changed in order for EU funds to arrive. Overall, this kind of complementing does not affect the whole system. DK will not support this proposal, as the whole system is problematic. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-35	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2015 CXLIII on public procurement T/3513. The purpose of the proposal is to amend several elements of public procurement legislation in order to fully comply with EU legislation and practice and to address a number of problems encountered in practice in the application of domestic law. The proposal includes a number of regulatory elements that promote more efficient, flexible and faster implementation of public procurement procedures, as well as better public finance management. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what has already been said by the Secretary of State, Mr Csaba Latorcai, in his expozee and by my fellow Member, Gábor Riz, in his speech, but I think it is important to stress that, in order to prevent overpriced and manage public money more effectively, the failure of the contracting authority to declare the procedure ineffective, even if, in view of the pricing of the best bid, the contract would seriously violate the requirement of efficient and responsible management. I also think it is important to emphasise that it will become more flexible to restore the legality of public procurement procedures when this is detected by the contracting authority after the outcome of the procedure has been transmitted, or in the course of the request for a preliminary dispute settlement, it recognises a breach of public procurement rules. Again, I am obliged to respond to what was said by Mr Zsolt Gréczy, DK, lead speaker. He said here in the Chamber, repeating, in essence, what was said during the previous item on the agenda and adding that the arrival of EU funds has a general rule of law problem in Hungary, according to his opinion and opinion. No, Congressman, it is not that, but that your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, has made this very clear that it is your work and mine. This mine work is reinforced by the double standard in Brussels, the double standard it applies to Hungary. [[10.10]] Even before last year's elections, Hungary suffered from this double standard in Brussels, Strasbourg, but after last year's elections, it seems that Brussels and Strasbourg have moved to a higher level and that is what we are suffering here in Hungary. And if we look more closely at the European Commission itself, then we should know that the European Commission should be the guardian of the Treaty itself on the basis of the Lisbon Treaty, as it states, but, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the European Commission is no longer the guardian of the Treaty, because it believes that it is above the law. Thank you for listening, and please, as the KDNP fraction supports the bill, support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Komjathi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had serious concerns when I read the draft, the title of the proposal, as I have experienced and experienced in the last few years that, when it comes to the public, you are having a rather serious problem of understanding the text, because we have seen how taxpayers' money is losing its public money. We have also seen how universities lose their character in public institutions. We have also seen how health workers are losing their status as civil servants right now, and we also see a process of how taxpayers' renovated castles will lose their public wealth. Unfortunately, we also see that for you in many cases public procurement means that everything is acquired from the public, even if it is 10 feet deep, even if that concrete is transported by its homemade concrete manufacturers. We therefore have serious concerns about this proposal, although there are also parts in this which are absolutely justified. Public procurement legislation has been amended almost every year by the Orbán governments. However, one thing has never changed, the system has remained opaque, which has always made it possible to manage public procurement, i.e. to decide who will win the tender in question at the moment of issue, and to exclude candidates who may enter into competition from the tender for a variety of reasons. It is not clear from the present proposal that any changes in this area are planned and the essential elements of the public procurement system remain unchanged. We can only see a few changes to the European Union's provisions, i.e. for harmonisation of laws, which are more of a technical nature. In addition, the exclusion of participants in the tender on the basis of suspicious offers and the extension of the possibilities of framework agreements may continue to be an opportunity for abuse. However, rules providing for exceptions for certain special procurements of the Hungarian Defence Office may be justified. I propose that you consider redesigning this proposal in such a way that it is extended to be eligible. Once again, I would like to stress that the MSZP has supported and voted in favour of any proposal that was expressed with honor and honour, not wrapped in all kinds of things that are not eligible, because it is important for us to have these EU funds, I would stress once again for the interests of Hungarian workers, workers, pensioners, Hungarian people. That's why I'm asking you to focus on this. There is nowhere to go with dollar left-winging, Gyurcsányás; it leads us to never agree, even when it serves Hungarian interests and the interests of Hungarian people, because it takes the focus away from the point. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-04-13-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-39	Mr President, Dear House, When I took my place, I made a comment that it was not possible to get away with these first two, otherwise professional agendas without an actuating policy. Perhaps it would have been better, but if the dimension of the general debate had been opened, I would like to make a very strict clarification to the Secretary of State. Here at the previous item, they expressed their gratitude for the fact that the community of Jobbik-Conservatives supports the otherwise good proposal that has come before us, with the remark that they are glad that we are finally supporting these. I would like to make it clear to you that in recent months we have voted in favour of every bill needed to allow the frozen EU funds concerned to arrive in our country. We have been so strict about this principle that even in the case of legislation that seems, or perhaps hides mines, that we have taken some risks in order to bring EU funds home, and that we have provided these proposals for our support in a situation where we have felt some political risk. But the national interest is the first, let there be consensus on this, and if this frozen mass of resources can arrive earlier in this way, then we must support these proposals. So, so much for EU money. Then I would also like to make a footnote comment on this. We see that there is a lack of resources of up to HUF 3000 billion or HUF 4000 billion, but we also see on the other side that Fidesz-KDNP is working hard to replace this with the Hungarian citizens. Here, in the examination of the VAT revenue line, we find that almost half of the missing EU resource was extracted from the additional VAT revenue that was not necessarily expected to be realised as an inflation extra profit due to the payment by citizens of the higher VAT content of higher prices. So here, too, there would be room for manoeuvre, say, to reduce VAT on basic foods and other subjects. I am very pleased, by the way, that we can talk a little bit about the public procurement system. Anyone who approaches this issue professionally has often felt uncomfortable in recent years, because we have been unable to come to terms with such basic concepts as single-offer procurement. In general, the problem is that there is a national procedure, and there is an EU procedure above a certain limit, and there are about two thirds to one third of the different types of public procurement, types of contracts among them, and when EU statistics come out, this is typically one third of the system that covers the larger but perhaps smaller number of contracts and fewer customers. We see that the proportion of single-offer public procurement is high, according to everyone. I don't really know anyone who could justify it being okay. Quarantine single candidates have also been mentioned in recent debates, when there are seemingly two or two candidates, but there are certain organisations or suspicions of them in the background, and it may have been the 2021 public procurement Authority's wording, which is the most sobering. Two out of 25,000 cases, the alarm rang that there was a problem. So, conceptually, there's no way that, in terms of 25,000 cases like this, there's only two ways to say that there's at least one way to say it. Therefore, we see that we have a lot of work to do in this area. It is no coincidence that the proposal concerns the field of public works procurement. Here we are talking about 40 percent of the procedures on average, but if we look at the public procurement values, we see that 55-60 percent of the total value is roughly limited to public works contracts, so it is a very serious market. By the way, I see the possibility. If we can clean this up, the greater the opportunity to move forward and save common resources. As far as the proposal is concerned, it is no secret that lawyers meet at every party or faction, and at our place lawyers have pressed that certain red button twice, at least in relation to issues to be eliminated. One of them is the new reason for failure as set out in the proposal. We see that this allows the already winning offer to be rejected. I am not at all arguing that, if, say, an over-pricing is found, there should be a certain kind of action there, so I do not object that the GVH, together with the Ministry of Economic Development, is trying to implement our idea and idea of an online price monitoring application, which in the field of consumer protection could be a perfectly good way to reduce the various abuses. [[10.20]] However, what I see here is that this option without different control mechanisms, i.e. the virtual zeroing of the winning tender, the most favourable acceptance, can shake the foundations of the public procurement system. I do not know how the requirement for efficient and responsible farming will be guaranteed. It is precisely the point of the procurement procedure that it is necessary to accept the most favourable tender. Obviously, if someone finds an infringement or finds another abuse, we believe that there are other ways, ways to remedy it, but, as a basic principle, to introduce that the acceptance of the otherwise most favourable offer should not be mandatory, we believe that it can shake the whole system. I appeal to the Secretary of State to remove our doubts in this regard. The other proposal is that if, after publication or transmission of the result, the contracting authority notices that the legality must be restored, it may subsequently do so with much less consequences or substantially no consequences. Once again, we are talking about fundamental issues, and the direct consequence of this may be that more and more illegal results will be announced, as this can be corrected later, Mr Secretary of State, since it is possible to touch the system afterwards. Do you not think that this can shake the pillars of the whole public procurement system and that efficiency can seriously deteriorate in a case where it is very simple or too simple to restore situations that are otherwise found to be illegal? We are not against restoration or flexibility alone in this case, but it is just necessary to clarify what prevents the decision-maker from accepting the infringement results more easily in the event that it can be restored subsequently without any legal consequences. We see that if Mr Secretary of State is here in the closing of today's debate, which is not so far away, he is able to eliminate these two doubts, then the proposal can be absolutely debateable, because I myself would do a great deal to get these EU funds back home. As I said, on the other side, I would also do a great deal to ensure that the government does not try to compensate for these losses or frozen revenues from Hungarian families or citizens, in the form of, say, extra VAT revenues. If we could manage the two at the same time, it would be excellent for the national economy, since the arrival of frozen resources together with the reduction of Hungarian families' faces would have a double positive impact on the family budget. I think this could be the ideal goal that we can set in this debate. But since the general debate now is only about public procurement frameworks and perhaps less about EU funds, so if Mr Secretary of State can resolve our doubts on these two issues, then I think that the whole proposal can be debateable, even if we are not satisfied with the public procurement system at all, we can also make a professional connection to what is going on in the public sector and in the national economy on many points. However, in order to bring EU funds back, as I have said, we ourselves are flexible, not more flexible than we should, but in any case, we will be able to argue with similar proposals if we can resolve these doubts. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-04-13-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Szabadi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group, who wishes to give his speech on the pulpit. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-13-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, The Hungarian Movement has thoroughly reviewed the amendment of the Public Procurement Act. On the one hand, the bill before us contains the adaptation of the public procurement law to EU law, and on the other hand, the amendments aim at rationalising and speeding up public procurement procedures, with which we are fundamentally in agreement. In the current inflation environment, we support the amendment to allow for a faster conclusion of contracts for framework agreements and dynamic purchasing systems due to fast-changing prices. We can also support the introduction of a new inefficiencies, whereby the contracting authority may refuse to conclude contracts in the case of tenders which are excessively high-priced or manipulative. In particular, we welcome the amendment of the Public Procurement Act that will allow more effective control of public procurement procedures by removing subjective deadlines when initiating the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee procedure. Currently, compliance with the 60-day and 90-day deadlines for public authorities with control rights is a great burden, which should be expected from the knowledge of the infringement. But what is the date of learning? For example, failure to comply with a public procurement procedure can be established on the basis of a list of contracts and a public procurement database, so that the deadline begins to tick when the contract list is received and not when the audited body sends a statement of non-procurement. In the field of public procurement, the Hungarian Movement sees the problem primarily in practical implementation and the exploitation of loopholes. The high proportion of over-prices, the exclusion of the public and the single tender procedures are all in breach of the principle of efficient and transparent use of public funds. Corruption and cartelisation are the greatest threats to the cleanliness of public procurement. Corruption means concerted behaviour between contracting authorities and tenderers and the cartel between tenderers. They have in common the fact that they create extra profits for participants. Public procurement cartels violate both the purity of competition and the efficient use of public funds, and we therefore demand the strictest action against them. Pursuant to the Public Procurement Act, undertakings which have not been engaged in restrictive practices for more than three years should be excluded from the public procurement procedure, i.e. cartels, finalising the infringement against them by the Hungarian Competition Authority and imposing fines in its enforceable decision. The GVH should publish information on decisions on grounds of exclusion in the electronic procurement system, i.e. in the EKR. The amendment to this bill aims to ensure that the GVH also informs the Prime Minister's Office and the body providing support on infringements in future matters relating to the use of EU funds, which, of course, we can support. However, we do not agree with the phenomenon that companies fined for cartels are exempted from exclusion and can continue to compete in public procurement after some of the fake measures have been implemented. But what is it about? On an EU sample, the institution of self-cleaning was introduced earlier, according to which companies fined for cartels may submit applications to the Public Procurement Authority to clear themselves of the infringement. If they have successfully demonstrated their reliability, the authority shall issue a certificate to that effect and shall not be excluded from the procurement procedures. Here, however, there is an extremely large contradiction, and the biggest contradiction is that the legal institution was introduced to ensure competition on the market. So we are at the point where they want to ensure competition with companies that violate the purity of competition. That's interesting, though. Based on the list uploaded to the EKR, 51 companies have been certified as reliable by the Public Procurement Authority. These include names that are regularly involved in both GVH and public procurement procedures. For example, STRABAG and Tömb 2002 Kft., which are general contractors of public investments. This is Euromedic-Pharma Zrt. and Hungaropharma Zrt., the pharmaceutical suppliers of state hospitals, Jánosik and Társai Kft., which cleans for hospitals among others. But Dräger Medical Kft. can also be listed here. and HOGE Medical Instrument Ltd. also delivering medical instruments and equipment to hospitals. On the list, however, we found an interesting company, and this also concerns my narrower country, Kiskunhalas, so I took a more serious look at it. This is AQUAPLUS Kft., based in Sándorfalva, which, along with several other partners, was fined for carteling in 2016 in connection with GVH police tenders. The picantria of the matter is that the GVH made a calculation error when determining the fine. And now hold on, my fellow Members: instead of 10 percent of the relevant turnover determined by three times the value of the successful tender, the GVH accidentally calculated 100 percent of the fine. [[10.30]] With this, AQUAPLUS Kft. He was wrongly fined HUF 76.4 million instead of a fine of HUF 8.6 million, which the company paid without a sock; either because they didn't realize the error and now they get a stroke, or it was worth paying them an extra HUF 67.8 million in exchange for their ability to run in public procurement. Well, that shows that there's plenty of money in public procurement tenders. And it is interesting to me that I mentioned Kiskunhalas that, during the development of the Csipke Spa in Kiskunhalas, AQUAPLUS Kft. participated in the public procurement procedure, he did the drilling and well training of the 3rd thermal well for the Municipality of Kiskunhalas, for which he received a net commission of HUF 79.9 million. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Movement sees the biggest problem in overpriced public procurement procedures, which will be decided practically when the procedure is launched. The contracting authorities determine the estimated value of the procurement procedure with a significant buffer in the invitation to tender. Sometimes the contract price is below this. In the case of works, it is common that cheaper materials are actually installed at the end of the sub-contracting chain compared to technical plans and the budget. For example, instead of floor insulation of rock wool, a glass wool thermal insulation is made; no new layer is added to the inner humid seal seal; the humidity-permeable foil mat or the radiator valve is not written out in the budget, but another type. The installation of cheap raw materials can only be carried out if the designer and the technical inspector determine the technical equivalence with the type in the plan, which has been the issuing of a false proof. We therefore disagree with the amendment of this bill which repeals the concept of technical equivalence in the Public Procurement Act. They justify imposing an unjustified burden on contracting entities which has a restrictive effect on competition because it requires the definition of specific measurable technical parameters. This makes technical planning practically ridiculous and gives free hand to contractors when incorporating raw materials. Based on technical inspection opinions received by our party, the built-in raw material is not cheap, but the designed expensive. According to some research, procurement procedures are 140-320 percent overpriced compared to market prices. We are pleased to see that, in exchange for EU money, the government is also willing to reveal itself the over-pricing of NER companies. We would also welcome the regular provision of this activity in the future. The legal basis for establishing an irregularity was not some specific provision of the Public Procurement Act, but one of its principles, according to which the contracting authority must act in the light of the principle of efficient, responsible management when using public funds. According to the specific case, in September last year the Prime Minister's Office for Public Procurement overpriced the destruction of public procurement linked to the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister led by Antal Rogán. The National Communications Office has issued public procurement from EU sources for the marketing communication activities of the National Castle Programme and the National Castle Programme in 2022, with bids submitted for event organisation showing a significant deviation from market prices. But who are these law-breaking companies? As a joint bidder, New Land Média Kft., belonging to Gyula Balásy near NER, appears among them. and Lounge Design Ltd. the advertising activities of national consultations. Government communications tenders have been continuously won by the two companies since 2015, so the public authorities are obliged to sign with them. Their tax results in the last seven years have been HUF 34 billion. Only the amount of contracts concluded with the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office reaches HUF 200 billion. The Hungarian Movement has not had much confidence in national consultations, on which the government has spent almost 60 billion forints since 2010, with an average of 70-80 percent of the amount spent on advertising. Now, who knows what the real cost was? In order to obtain EU funds as soon as possible, the government undertook last year to reduce the proportion of single-playing public procurement to 15 percent. In our view, this will not be easy, because according to the analysis of the Prime Minister's Office, until April last year, the proportion of single tender tenders was 30 percent, in which neither framework agreements nor negotiated procedures without notice were included. The proportion of the latter should also be reduced, as according to the Prime Minister's Office data a quarter of the public procurement was not public in 2021. Overall, the Hungarian Movement can support the bill on the condition that the government takes strict steps to prevent and detect corruption in public procurement and cartels. This will be monitored on a continuous basis, as is the case with the enforcement mafia, and abuses will be made public. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-04-13-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2023-04-13-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a quick response to my fellow Member Imre Vejkey's criticism. You can't blow cold and hot out of the same mouth at the same time. You are saying that you are working to bring in EU money. Then he says at the same time that the European Commission is at a new pace and is no longer in control of the Lisbon Treaty. So, do you think it's gonna open up the EU budget, or do you think it's gonna zip it up even more? So, this isn't gonna work. So if you keep talking about how the European Union is guilty and Brussels and Strasbourg, then the EU's money will come even less, and it is nobody else's fault but the Orbán government alone. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-44	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group, in two minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-13-45	I thought the debate would be simpler, Mr President, but I must respond to what our colleague Zsolt Gréczy said, because I see that DK does not realize that what it offers is treason. We must say that the dollar left is neither free nor independent; it is neither free nor independent, because they have been bought, and this has been proven now, even in recent moments. Since they have been bought and their customers are foreigners, they do not represent a Hungarian interest, and that is why I am asking them to stop doing this and try to represent the interests of the Hungarian people, those who, how should I put it? They sympathize with you, at least represent them, because it seems to me that they're starting to turn away from you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-13-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the two-minute speeches, and now we are going to have speeches on a normal time-frame. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, the Hungarian Movement. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I don't want to bore anyone with the details of my résumé and career so far, but I'm in a particular position to be qualified as a public procurement rapporteur back in 2005. I have also had the pleasure of getting to know the details of the Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 May 2004. At that time, I was still living in my dear, well-solved, successful years as a local government in Vársord, and I practically played a central role in organising public procurement procedures carried out by the Municipality of Vársord. I was in charge of this. Without arrogance, but with sufficient self-confidence, it may have been a rarity throughout the county that every year we made every purchase of food materials. We acquired our food materials through public procurement channels and thus became much cheaper to purchase, while ordering services and, in particular, works were the other two types of process or procurement in which almost every year it was necessary to act. [[10.40]] With responsibility, I dare say that if the preparation is good, and what has been said here by the lead speaker of Mi Hazank, is adequate market research, price analysis, price-value analysis, and the process of preparation is conducted properly, technical conditions, financial and economic conditions are properly, proportionately and normally written, then collusion and corruption can be filtered to a large extent. By the way, I am talking about corruption, which, from 2004 onwards, is a very significant part of the public procurement system, a rare exception, because let's be honest, if we are now making our thinking very simple, we see that, in fact, if people with bad intentions, if you like, criminal tendencies are involved in public procurement procedures, it is only a matter of making paper alive with a more complicated or simpler, shorter or longer ugly word, how they can solve black shops and cut black money into their pockets. Basically, we are also talking about moral issues, in many cases criminal matters, in relation to public procurement procedures, which are very important from the national economy point of view, and we are debating a strategic law here in Parliament today, as even without EU funds, the state, municipalities and various departments spend or spend thousands of billions of forints annually through public procurement channels. Indeed, the number of single-playing procedures is facial toaster, as there may be one-playing procedures where they appear to be formally, numerically, as if to be executed with several bidders, but there, in practically preconceived, defatted circumstances, there is a good advance on who will win that procedure. I have had the pleasure of conducting a public procurement procedure where we have also lived in similar times as we have now, say, between 2004 and 2007, construction prices, labour costs and material prices have gone away, while, let's say, information technology has had better processes than this. In connection with the renovation and IT development of the primary school at the time, the construction cost about 10 million more in autumn 2006 than we planned in 2004, but the IT development planned for 26 million, hold on, we managed to close it at 15 million 800 thousand HUF. Even if I remember correctly, the DEAD Kht. In connection with the procedures carried out by him, we were allowed to include what was saved in IT for the additional costs of the works. So basically, what we failed at the rally, we won on customs to simply put it this way, but to do so, we didn't have to conduct the procedures through the centralised public procurement system at the time, because it wasn't much better then than it was now in terms of corruption. If I remember correctly, I was on the phone with a very well-intentioned head of department of the Prime Minister's Office at the time, who said that if we wanted to do the right thing, we would do the IT procurement planned for 26 million ourselves, because I'm sure it'll be much cheaper, we'll get better. He said that if we put 26 million in public procurement into a centralised public procurement system operated by the left-wing governments at the time, he would guarantee that it would end with a bid price of at least 35 million or an even higher bid price. Now, at this moment, we have rejected the possibility of getting it through a centralised, much more convenient centralised system for us. We complicated the procurement procedure ourselves, and instead of the 26 million budget, we managed to install the primary school in Vársord for HUF 15 million with very modern IT tools at the age level. There were 10 million 200 thousand forints left that were not taken from us, but we were able to fill the holes in the construction project, which served as a public satisfaction. The body of representatives quickly realized that this could indeed become an optimal and ideal means of saving. Yes, public procurement can become a means of saving if there are no dark intentions behind it. Exactly these nearly 20-year-old memories tell me that I do not see too much innovation in this new inefficiencies, since it was possible to state in the calls for proposals or tenders from 2004-2005 or 2005-2010 that we consider the offer to be invalid in the first place over a specified amount of bid. It's not a cause of failure, it's not a cause of invalidity, but it's practically the same end, with the big difference that it could be fixed there in advance... By the way, I think it may be now, but it is true that in recent years I have not followed the development of public procurement law as closely as it has been for you, let us say, from 40-50 amendments, it is good to accept two, often not one, because only the good and the good are the way you think they listen to no one, nothing, they go after their own head. So I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what kind of innovation this kind of inefficiencies include compared to 18-20 years ago. This could be expressed in a much simpler way, even in the form of an nullity. What has been mentioned here by one of the previous speakers is that, even after the publication and after the substantive assessment, the economic harm caused by the excessively high bid price can be recouped, on the one hand, it seems very good to hear that even at the very last moment, it is possible to reach out to the bidder offering too high a price, and perhaps to applaud the whole thing, to invalidate the procedure. The only reason I'm thinking as a lawyer is that it's getting very taxatically involved in the concept of civil law, "the damage of encouragement." In particular, in the case of purchases where the successful tenderer and, where appropriate, in fair circumstances, the successful tenderer, who obtains the contract, obtains the service, obtains the order or supplies, or the contractor prepares for the contract performance at a construction project, trusting that he has already won the procedure, at a first moment it is not disproportionately high bid price, then the procedure is invalidated after the award or the announcement of the result, for a high amount of execution, for a large amount of order, this may mean not only serious tens of millions, but even hundreds of millions. Who will then pay the otherwise, let's say, a fair entrepreneur the extra cost of encouraging damage, the loss of profit, or the direct damage caused by this transaction? So we should protect the state register from excessive bid prices while not causing encouraging damage to entrepreneurs. I don't see any guarantees here. So it looks like we're starting to cross over on the other side of the horse, along with a much simpler way of screening corruption, which is still largely dependent on the preparatory phase. If, at the preparatory stage, we do not know, or even until the call for proposals has been drawn up, we cannot weed out the reserves that result in redistributive amounts, so we cannot in the first place only set a bid price adjusted to the level of fair entrepreneurial profit, or set an estimate, to say the best of all, it is a moral and criminal matter that we will be able to catch corruption. It is very difficult to follow this up if the preparation goes wrong, because it is in the interests of both the black money donor and the receiving party that nothing is ever revealed that serious prison years do not follow. Therefore, from then on, it is almost impossible to go after him with covert or covert investigative methods. And it is not realistic that there are thousands of procedures each year, and that many thousands of procedures would commit police or secret service capacities if they were to be followed by such means. It would be much simpler, which has indeed become difficult in the last two years to set specific cost limits. I have said this a thousand times in this Chamber: setting specific costs in square meters, in running metres, in other methods or units, typically in the case of works, but they give the highest value of procedures. However, it could also be linked to service orders, to a large number of supplies, with specific cost limits, with continuous updates that could either eliminate or significantly reduce corruption, so that the so-called, ironically speaking, customary gift cannot reach the beneficiary from the transferring party. If we see that, say, in the case of works, this is the most common specific costs, such as, for example, in a construction project, which then allows for a very high amount of redistribution, then we can write out the call for proposals under the strictest technical or financial-economic conditions, and we will achieve nothing with it, because it remains in the system which, either at the end of the project or at the beginning of the project, or at the very least, at any time after publication, can be redistributed. On the other hand, if we calculated the specific costs of a decent entrepreneurial benefit, either there would be no provision for crime in the system, or we would be able to eliminate it substantially. [[10.50]] But let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, I may have said this, too, perhaps corruption is nothing more than spiritual prostitution, and as prostitution, prostitution in the traditional sense, is the same age as humanity and the oldest profession, it is likely that, as long as there is a man on Earth, some form of corruption will always exist. Therefore, the human weakness, the human factor, will continue to be in the system, not only in Hungary, in any other country in the world, so it would be worth taking the tools of law and common sense, in this case, the means of setting specific cost limits to the full, or, as I have just said, at least to a significant degree, to reduce them, because after that, think of the state resources it consumes by sticking the traces of corruption money. Not only do the aforementioned police or secret service tools cost the Hungarian State and the Hungarian taxpayers, but the maintenance of the Hungarian Competition Authority and the continuous operation of the Public Procurement Authority. If we were to add that what we could prevent, what it costs in the absence of prevention, all the costs spent on it, with real costs, wages, public burdens, then it would be that the establishment of a rational, thorough, well-thought-out and prepared public procurement procedure system would be much cheaper, much fewer officials should be maintained, and much less workers in the aforementioned bodies or bodies. So I'm asking you to think this through with your common sense, or I'm calling you or calling you. It would not be so complicated, this Gordian knot should be cut or removed at the beginning, everything would be much easier from then on, and there would be much more money left for what the national, domestic budget or the budget of the European Union would allow. A lot more jobs would be created, workers would make a lot more money, and, moreover, especially in those times that are now being greeted, we are far from at the end, let us say, regardless of the type of procurement, especially in the disadvantaged regions of the country, making it a priority criterion for criticism that can in principle have long been made, but is not yet used in practice. But at least in the case of public procurements, and in particular works, I am thinking again, let us say, to make it a matter of particular criticism that, for the entire duration of the project in the disadvantaged area, how many of the main workers, trained workers and skilled workers are employed by the successful bidder. Then, with a significant penalty, or avoid the fact that, as he won the job, in a month's time, he would fire the people he had to hire because of the commitment, because then in areas where public work is still not so patchy, but is present, there would be market-based work. People at a disadvantage who do low wages, not much value-making work, would make a lot more money. So the system of public procurement could be the engine of economic development, if they would let it, if it were political will, and especially if its greed could finally be curbed by the very narrow circle we have been waiting for, let's say, some of 33 years, but especially over the last 13 years. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-04-13-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Gréczy, Member of the DK Group, asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2023-04-13-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. They always start their comments by saying that they wouldn't have spoken to him, but since I said so, they will also comment. Then I will continue with this, because I wouldn't have planned it either, but our fellow Member Imre Vejkey was so offended that I dared to criticize the Orbán government that he immediately called out treason on the opposition side, i.e. the Democratic Coalition. So you can't just leave it alone. KDNP is a member of the European People's Party. The European People's Party has a number of leaders who also manage their country as Prime Minister, even as head of state. When you criticize Strasbourg, Brussels, you also criticize the leaders of the European People's Party through the European People's Party, as a member of the European People's Party. If you think this is reasonable and appropriate for Hungary, then I think we are on something very, very different about what we should represent, how we should represent Hungary's interests. And speaking of treason, is it not treason that thousands of doctors are missing from the Hungarian health system? Isn't it treason that 600,000 Hungarians have been gone for the past 13 years since you've been ruling? Many of these are young Hungarians, who do not plan their lives here anymore. Well, if there was a canaan flowing with milk and honey, as you keep saying, every day without a break, between two dollars on the left as a ruble right, then these young people wouldn't leave. These young people leave because they don't have a chance to buy a flat here, they don't have a chance to provide their children with a future for development, for learning, for a living. That's why these people are leaving. These young Hungarians will already have children outside, and many Hungarian children will already be born abroad, who are in danger of not learning Hungarian. Well, what's treason if it's not? That you created a situation where young Hungarians leave this country, leaving weeping family members, parents and grandparents. This is the Hungarian reality you created. Well, what's treason if it's not? Isn't the treason that 3 million Hungarians live below the minimum living standards? Isn't the treason that, according to recent data from yesterday, thanks to your economic policy, Hungary's debt service will only increase by 1000 billion this year? What you have to pay is your borrowings: they grow by 1,000 billion this year only. What could you have spent that thousand billion forints on? ? The entire Hungarian health care and education system could have been restored.
u2023-04-13-50	Congressman, the family law and these questions will be discussed at a later date. Be nice to get to the point. Thank you.
u2023-04-13-51	Well, the story started with public procurement, and the Democratic Coalition was betrayed by Congressman Imre Vejkey. I think I have the right to respond to treason. So when it comes to the fact that the Polish ambassador, who is supposed to represent your allied party, not only Poland, he says yesterday that it is bad to see the Hungarian foreign minister in Moscow all the time. Well, what's treason if it's not? That the V4 cooperation is in ruins. What's treason if it's not that you can't turn on the television, the radio, all of your portals without scolding the Ukrainians and glorifying the Russians? You can tell the Russians to go home! The posters the U.S. embassy puts out to be pro-war? The Russkies are home! One of your most important messages? Well, Congressman, I think... And the problem is that it all comes back to you hitting and cutting the opposition, especially the Democratic Coalition, which, by the way, is an honor for us, because you see that the system is going to collapse, eventually it's going to collapse, there's no money in it, and the country's diplomatically completely isolated. And we can talk about public procurement here, which obviously is what it is. Imagine, in a reverse situation: the Prime Minister of the country is not called Viktor Orbán, anyone else on this site, and he has a gas mechanic friend who takes home the entire Hungarian industry, tourism, because he is a gas mechanic and he knows everything. What would you do? They'd yell, and I'd beat the table, asking you to make such a mess through a gasman. Well, the reason we don't have EU money is because there's a man named Lőrinc Mészáros in the end. The Prime Minister's friend can't be the richest man in the country, a gasman, he knows everything! That's the problem. This is why EU funds are not coming, and so we are in vain, among other things, to tackle public procurement. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-52	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey in a normal time frame. Again, we are discussing the Public Procurement Act.
u2023-04-13-53	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. It is absolutely necessary to respond to what Mr Zsolt Gréczy, DK, has said. [[11.00]] One: calls on us to note that KDNP, a member of the EPP, is a member of the European People's Party, how dares to criticise Brussels and Strasbourg, as there are EPP leaders. Well, Zsolt Gréczy, this is freedom. That's what freedom means. It means we have the guts to say it. Yeah, the EPP leaders could be wrong. In fact, if there is a double standard, we have to say that there is a double standard. It's freedom! This is the freedom that our ancestors have fought for, and we are struggling to this day, so that Hungary can belong to this free world, which you do not like for some reason, because you want to follow someone. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And it's really hard to say what you're saying when you're talking about how good it would be to have different budget lines stay here. Yeah, I'd love for you to stay here. It would have been very good if you hadn't supported Brussels' failed sanctioning policy, which would have resulted in such expenditure. It would have been very, very good, Congressman, but unfortunately they didn't. It would be very good if they were on the side of peace and not on the side of war. I'd love to, but they didn't. I would draw your attention to these, and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-54	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy of the DK Group.
u2023-04-13-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. One sentence: it says that we supported the sanctions policy. There is only one Hungarian person who voted for all the sanctions: Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-56	Thank you. I give the floor to István Apáti in two minutes from the group of our country.
u2023-04-13-57	Thank you very much. The debate at the inaugural meeting of the Vejkey-Gréczy eternal group of friends encouraged me to add a few thoughts. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungarian politics has long been based on war logic, and this is nothing more than the enemy, and in worse cases the total destruction and bombing of enemy lines. This is what you did some time in 2012 when the gaming machine profession at that time, or, if you like, some of the gambling games were completely destroyed by the first increased tax burden, and then by a bill passed from Monday to Tuesday. There were tens of thousands of people on the street, precisely because you assumed that the gaming machine profession at that time had, of course, been poured down with a social sensitivity mash; but let us be clear, let us not speak with it, the gaming machine world or underworld at that time, no matter what we consider, so the gaming machine profession at that time brought considerable cash support to the left parties at that time. So you destroyed it and channeled it into your house at casinos. I would add that the poor people who had played their benefits and salaries on the one-armed robber, now play it in the lottery, play it in online gambling or play it anywhere else, so they didn't solve anything but give him a sound explanation and channel it to themselves. There are casinos that are still not connected to the NAV online system. The smallest beautician has to tie up his cash register, but the casinos connected to the Minister of Defense don't have to tie it up. It's also a very strong double standard. Now, of course, none of the thinking is right with you on the left, and they are not right in that they want to bomb the military supply reported by EU funds and their own instruments. One mistake doesn't save another, one sin doesn't explain the other, both are huge mistakes, and after all, the Hungarian people and Hungarian entrepreneurs are not you. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-13-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Csaba Latorcai: Yes.]] Yeah. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2023-04-13-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I thank you for your support. I would like to point out that there have been some concrete issues. Now I do not want to respond to these specific cases, because in Hungary, thank God, we have the official and judicial forums that supervise the legality of public procurement. A proposal was made to increase the use of local workers in disadvantaged areas. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what the Government of Hungary wants. This proposal is included in the proposed Investment Act, which is currently under discussion with the European Commission. And why is the bill before you innovative? For example, because the reference to the lack of collateral, which some of them have misunderstood, has emerged from their speech, so the reference to the lack of collateral as a failure can be opened widely, with general effect, for public procurement. I would also like to clarify the misunderstanding that the principle of technical equivalence should, of course, continue to apply, whether in the technical specifications or in the references. That is precisely why there is no need for a specific definition. And the rules of self-cleaning, honourable opposition representatives, should be taken over from the EU directive. So I would ask you not to attack the fulfilment of our European Union obligation. It has been said that Hungary has a high number of single-offer public procurements. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Parliament, we are in the middle of the field in an EU comparison. In terms of public procurement in the EU, this figure was 40 per cent earlier, but thanks to the government's measures it decreased to 32.9% by 2022, and for domestic procurement it was much lower, from 23 per cent to 20 per cent in the last year, and, of course, the government is taking further measures to reduce this rate. On behalf of Jobbik's representative, it has been said that there is a reason for the new inefficiencies. Well, Congressman, this can only be referred to if the contracting authority is able to explicitly demonstrate the pricing that is manipulative or in breach of the principle. Repetition of criticism may also serve only to comply with the Public Procurement Act. I hope that I have managed to convince the representatives of our country and Jobbik, and they will support this bill, which has fulfilled the EU's obligation, because, in vain, Mr Z. Kárpat has said so far, this has not been the case. I would just like to point out that Jobbik did not support CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. a bill amending the law. As regards the speeches on the need to improve the public procurement system, well, honourable ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what we are doing. At the same time, the government does not consider it necessary to create a new system, as, I repeat, Hungary is among the best performing Member States in terms of public procurement on the basis of the Single Market Scoreboard. I therefore ask the left-wing representatives, from Jobbik through the MSZP, to see that Mr Komjathi has gone all the way to DK, to prove that they are pro-EU and vote in favour of this bill, because, as I said, this will lead to an obligation of the European Union. If you do not vote in favour of this proposal, you will prove that you are interested in further conflicting with the European Union, so that you want the resources for Hungary, the Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses not to arrive home or as soon as possible. And what is treason, Mr Gréczy: well, the treason is that you are doing everything in your power to ensure that Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, do not receive the EU funds that are due to them. [[11.10]] By doing so, they only confirm the suspicion that what would be due to the country is what would be due to the Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, this money, these EU funds, you are actually trying to play to the foreign financiers of the dollar-left. Dear Parliament, In its proposal to amend the Public Procurement Act, the Government calls for the adoption of provisions, based on the Commission's requests and on the problems, experience and feedback arising from the case law, to implement and comply with EU obligations, to meet legislative needs arising from the application of public procurement law and the need for practical needs, to implement public procurement procedures more effectively, faster and more flexibly, and to support responsible public spending practices. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill tabled by the Government by voting in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on foreign affairs until closure. The government referral is T/3515. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Azbej Tristan, the Secretary of State of the CCI, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The following proposal is the Act on consular protection, the Foreign Representations and Permanent Service Act and the Act on Special Status and the Status of Employees and the Provisions on the Successful Implementation of Hungarian Appearance at the World Exhibition in Osaka in 2025, XLVII in 2022. The law aims to amend the linguistic position of the law. The bill contains legislative amendments that are necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the permanent external service system and the consular service and consular protection, as well as to ensure a high level of representation of Hungarian foreign policy interests. In general, the amendments contained in the bill serve to ensure uniform application and a high level of responsibilities, thereby making a significant contribution to the proper functioning of the single representation system. Dear Parliament, In recent years, in line with Hungary's foreign economic, foreign policy and national policy priorities, procedures have been made available to Hungarian citizens abroad through the consular service, which have further strengthened the service and customer-friendly nature of the Hungarian administration. In line with this, the 2001 XLVI on consular protection. The fundamental aim of the amendment of law is to create an appropriate legal environment, i.e. to implement the provisions of the law and to improve the practical experience of the application of the law at the level of the law. Dear Parliament, Extending the procedures of the consular service and increasing consular responsibilities and responsibilities in this context necessarily entails reconsidering and redefining the training requirements of participants in the consular service. For the first time in the list of amendments, the training and examination obligations of consular officials and consular administrators involved in their work will be adapted in accordance with the requirements of the modern administration. In this context, emphasis will also be placed on previous work experience in the consular position. In addition to the above, the bill aims to ensure the protection of Hungarian citizens and, consequently, to increase customer friendliness in accordance with the government's programme. The regulation of the registration service of the consular service for consular protection constitutes an important amendment. When registering for consular protection, using the contact details provided by citizens, it is possible to notify citizens of unexpected incidents during travel in the country of destination more quickly and to start consular assistance if a Hungarian citizen is in trouble abroad. Dear Parliament, The amendment also clarifies the categories of security classifications in which the consular service enumerates each country or region on the basis of a consideration of risk factors related to travel abroad. Based on the experience gained since the beginning of the use of security classifications, a new category will be introduced to better detect different levels of security risks and threats in individual countries and regions for Hungarian citizens planning to travel there or staying there. By creating the new category, it will be possible to demonstrate that the security features of the country present a significant risk, but consular protection can still be ensured, that the country's operation is health and official assistance, although in difficult circumstances, but allows, and therefore the journey to the event cannot be impossible due to the legal effects of classification, i.e. travel does not necessarily have to be cancelled and travel insurance can be linked. Dear Parliament, The constant need to modernise the functioning of the public administration and the transparency of legislation directly affecting citizens constantly poses new challenges for Hungarian consular officials. The objective of all the provisions presented above is clearly to contribute to improving the efficiency of the procedures of the consular service, to the achievement of the government's objective of strengthening customer-friendly public administration, and, above all, to the protection of the safety of Hungarian citizens. Dear Parliament, LXXIII of 2016 on foreign representations and permanent external service The amendment and clarification of the Act following a review, as well as the joint public tasks carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, primarily through government officials serving a permanent external service at the foreign representations of Hungary, will help the Government of Hungary to pursue the foreign policy and foreign economic interests objectives of the Government of Hungary. Based on experience gained in practical application, new provisions need to be introduced in areas requiring further regulation, and technical additions and clarification of certain provisions need to be included in the draft legislation. LXXIII of 2016 on foreign representations and permanent external service First of all, I would like to point out that the definition of a professional diplomat law is supplemented, so that a body with special status falling within the scope of the law on special status and the status of persons employed by them can designate a permanent external service placement and transfer the person to be posted for a limited period of time to carry out professional responsibilities. In view of this, the management of professional diplomats, the rules on contacts will be clarified and it will be possible to be seconded to the Ministry of Coordination of European Union Affairs prior to permanent representation with the European Union. Dear Parliament, Moreover, a major amendment is that the tasks to be performed in a permanent external service job can be defined by reference to the regulations of the posting body instead of a job description. [[11.20]] In this way, the provisions of the Foreign Representations and the Foreign Service Act are brought into line with the Law on Government Administration, taking into account the uniform and integrated institutional structure involved in the public task of foreign affairs and the external economy. Accordingly, the document on placement and transfer to another foreign station should include a reference to the Code. Furthermore, the staff of exchange rate compensation to reduce the impact of the euro or dollar price increase and the body entitled to provide compensation in the same field have been specified in particular. The bill also contains the amendment that, in the event that the state of the banking system in the country of the station endangers the security of the transfer, it is not possible for any other reason, the payment can be made in full cash, thus ensuring the order of payments in all exceptional cases. According to the amendment, the posted undertaking to designate the body responsible for the reimbursement of the costs when applying an advance to the health insurance undertaking on an equitable basis in the case of health benefits exceeding HUF 1 million, so that the amount previously advanced will be returned directly to the body of relocation. The amendment also regulates the situation of transfers from law enforcement bodies to permanent external service by introducing a new legal institution. Dear Parliament, The proposal also includes technical clarifications of the Foreign Representation and External Service Act necessary to ensure uniform use of terms and conditions with the Government Administration Act, to supplement the list of provisions for spouses employed by foreign representations, provisions on incapacity for work and to standardise and improve legal references. Dear Parliament, As set out in the proposal, the 2019 CVII on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. In the case of law, new provisions are introduced with regard to the basic rules for permanent external service secondment. On the basis of the draft, the law will also be supplemented by the basic rules on permanent external service secondment, so that professional tasks falling within the competence of the body with special status and the provision of support for tasks will also be possible through additional professionals seconded to foreign representations. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to safeguard the security of Hungarians residing abroad, to make the consular service performing this work more effective, and to make Hungary's foreign affairs interests, diplomatic interests, and overall, the enforcement of the foreign policy interests of Hungarians even more professional and customer-friendly. Therefore, in view of the above, I would like to ask you to support the proposed legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-62	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Elijah Boglárka, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In the bill on the amendment of certain laws on foreign affairs before us, we are discussing the amendment of four laws, as the Secretary of State said: the 2001 XLVI on consular protection. Act LXXIII of 2016 on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service Act CVII of 2019 on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. Act 2025 and Act XLVII of 2022 on the provisions relating to the successful implementation of Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition in Osaka in 2025. amendment of law. The latter contains only a language-place amendment, so I do not wish to go into detail, but it is possible to see from the number of years of law that both the time since their adoption and the additional tasks of external service workers and the experience gained in carrying out these tasks justify the amendment of the law. The amendments include technical changes that enable job definition, work and secondment to be clarified; there are amendments to clarify the examination requirements, where appropriate, to allow for more flexible organisation of professional training in view of the continuing complexity of the external service, of the legislation concerning consular work. I think we can all agree that one of the most skilled professions is foreign service, because a country, a nation, or the help of residents abroad, must be able to ensure that those in foreign service are stable. There are, of course, conditions that we all have a shared responsibility and a duty to ensure for this work, which is what many points and parts of the bill we are discussing are about. I would like to highlight some of these, partly because the Secretary of State has already described them in detail, and partly because I believe that these are worth emphasising, strengthening and highlighting. This is the extension of existing provisions to spouses employed by foreign representations and the Foreign Service Act 57/B. For scholarships participating in a guest education scholarship programme under § 1. Or it is an important amendment that we also want to provide for a wider possibility of cash payments in order to prepare for any malfunctions that may arise in the context of crisis situations. In that case, I think it is particularly important that the bill also responds to these cases if, in the case of certain high-health-cost stations, the cost of a routine hospital treatment exceeds the amount of the six-month currency allowance from which the relocated person must cover his or her own and family's livelihood, then the outgoing manager may authorise the foreign representation to advance healthcare costs by foreign representation, and here I would like to stress that only his or her advance. In the event that we use last year's figures, the trips made by Hungarians and Hungarian citizens in 2022 as a basis, we can see that Hungarian citizens took 18 million trips, whether for work or for rest. It is therefore of particular importance that not only the working conditions of those in consular and foreign representation services are affected or influenced by this amendment, but also by citizens who are taking part in a foreign journey. There are two major amendments here that make the travel of all Hungarian citizens, I believe, more favourable, because the amendment concerning the consular law is also the registration of registration services for consular protection by law. So we've done this before, but it's very important that we name it in law. The purpose of registration is, as has been the case, to facilitate the notification of an emergency to citizens and to speed up the start of consular assistance that may become necessary. What is new in this respect is the regulation of the service at the statutory level. And what concerns the wider range of citizens, the most important change affecting travelers abroad, concerns the security classification of each country, because, as Mr State Secretary said, there are currently three such categories: the first is those countries where travel is not recommended, the second is the regions with increased security risks, and the third is those to which travel does not pose any safety risks. [[11.30]] In the event that a country is placed in the first category not proposed for travel, travel agencies are now obliged to cancel the trips organised there and travel insurance is not valid for those countries. However, on the basis of experience with the management of the pandemic, the consular service clearly recommends that we set up a fourth category of security between the first and the second of the present, and list those countries whose safety features pose a significant risk, but consular protection, even if limited, can be ensured. In this way, travel to these countries could not be postponed without insurance. A four-stage scale would therefore replace the current three-degree scale, which would indicate more precisely the different levels of security risks and threats in each country and region. So, as you can see, these are all practical, largely technical amendments, and I trust that you can all support the proposal before us. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-13-64	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-13-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I will say a few sentences before we also appreciate the concrete proposal on behalf of the Democratic Coalition. Well, it has to be said that on this day of the sitting several times that Hungarian relations with foreign affairs, Hungarian diplomatic relations, I must say, are at a low point. They are at a low point because we seem to have lost touch with our relations, we have lost our sense of reality with the Western world; we have lost the confidence of those we work with in an alliance, with whom we should move together since entering NATO in 1999 and EU membership in 2004. Compared to this, we have practically lost these relationships. Hungary is not invited to a very important conference in Washington because they see it as a security risk. They're making fun of the American ambassador's name as if we were in kindergarten, and he's the ambassador of the United States. It cannot be decided that no Hungarian government can decide not to pursue the best possible relations with its most important NATO ally, the United States, regardless of whether it is a Republican or a Democrat leading the United States. It is not possible to impose such a penalty, that we love one and do not like the other, and even with his name the Minister of the Hungarian Government is not a journalist, Minister of the Hungarian Government. This is obviously unacceptable. It can also be seen that there has been a very serious loss of prestige in the country's policy in Orbán on NATO enlargement. We're teaching Sweden a lesson right now, but I think our Finnish friends have remembered the Fidesz and the Orbán government for life. It can also be seen that under the Antall government, he thought it was extremely important and that the Visegrád alliance, which was created at the time, was practically in ruins. If we are in a situation in relation to the Russian-Ukrainian war that when the Hungarian Prime Minister is asked about the massacre in Bucsa, he says that he cannot see clearly, and Kaczyński, who is your ally, says that then the Hungarian Prime Minister should consult an eye doctor, that is all, but not good for Hungary. It can also be seen that Hungarian representation has been extremely weakened in the world, unfortunately Hungary has become a pariah. We're out of allies. What you think the representation of the Hungarian national interest actually means... And the freedom our ancestors fought for is not the freedom our ancestors fought for. What our ancestors fought for is belonging to the West, belonging to the European Union, which guarantees peace and prosperity for all Member States and the best possible cooperation with NATO, because it ensures Hungary's military security. Unfortunately, these values have been lost. And unfortunately, what you can see in the Hungarian diplomatic world is that there has been a change several times since the Orbán government worked. Diplomats have been dismissed, even those who have been appointed by you, even the Fidesz have been replaced for new ones. There was an ambassador who said that, and by the way, I'm talking about an ambassador you've already appointed, that he's only got nearly two thousand contacts for extra foreign diplomats, and he's just one of many fired State Department officers. If we multiply how many people were fired and how many foreign contacts they had, we'd be shocked at the number we got. An elite team was slaughtered; they abandoned the internal solidarity that was previously characteristic of the profession, said this ambassador, and added that diplomats are valued abroad. Such a mass cleansing has a very bad echo, which immediately reaches foreign foreign foreign offices. Now they laugh at us and describe the country, said the ambassador appointed by the Orbán government and then dismissed. And the proposal itself: it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that the amendment allows for more flexible organisation of vocational training, while at the same time tightening the examination requirements. The flexibility is the only thing that is true of this, given that according to the new rules, virtually one or two months of practice, basic administrative examination, a solid course can be a consular official for virtually anyone. In the past, only a consular officer who had at least two years of administrative experience could have had a basic administrative examination and of which at least three months had to be worked in the consular department of the State Department. It seems to be highly personalised legislation, although we do not wonder, the appointment of two former Jobbikians, János Volner and János Bencsik, who could be diplomats in this country in practice by not meeting any of the conditions for either education, language knowledge or the required practical experience. This assumption is confirmed by the fact that the proposal also provides for new legislation to apply to legal relationships that had already emerged before their entry into force. I think that this is again absolution; this new system is not helping Hungarian diplomatic and foreign relations. The Democratic Coalition will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-66	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-13-67	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/3515 amending certain laws on foreign affairs Legislative proposal No 1 contains the 2001 LXVI on consular protection on the one hand. Amendment of Law to ensure that the training and examination obligations for consular officials and consular administrators involved in their work comply with the requirements of the modern administration. By registering for consular protection, citizens' contact details may be alerted more quickly to unexpected incidents of travel in the country of destination and consular assistance may begin if the citizen is in trouble abroad. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/3515. On the other hand, the 2016 LXXIII bill on foreign representations and permanent external service is included. the amendment of law on the basis of experience gained in practical application. T/3515. In addition, the 2019 CVII on special status bodies and the status of persons employed by them is included in the bill. LXVII of 2022 on the amendment of the Act and on the provisions relating to the successful implementation of the publication at the World Exhibition in Osaka in 2025. the amendment of the law. [[11.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, On this item, as on the previous two agenda items, it seems that we are in a debate with our fellow Member, Zsolt Gréczy, DK, who has once again said his political position and his political credo. He has just explained that the relations of the Hungarian State Department are at a low point, which, of course, does not correspond to reality. Based on what has been said here in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, by our fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, I would not dare to think about what would happen if the left led by DK were to be on the government. I am sure that we would have delivered weapons a long time ago, and I am also sure that they would have fully supported the failed Brussels policy with which they believe that Russia could be sanctioned. This is America, the American ambassador. They should also know and see from these giant posters, to which our fellow MEP, DK, referred, that America has today launched a pro-war campaign in Hungary. That's the fact. That is the fact, and it is no coincidence that the left led by DK supports this. We have already seen this in the context of the pro-peace resolution proposal, which was not supported or rejected, and in the vote we also found out that the dollar left is and will remain pro-war, but we, the Fidesz-KDNP, are still on the side of peace. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/3515. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-13-68	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-13-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to divide my speech into two parts. In the first part, I would like to reflect on certain points of the concrete bill, and then, like my fellow Members, I would like to present a brief resolution on the foreign affairs situation in Hungary on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives. The bill before us primarily concerns the consular system. We can agree that this is a priority service for the security of Hungarian citizens, since it is part of the 21st century. In the 20th century, in a Member State of the European Union, the freedom of travel for Hungarian citizens has been granted and our countrymen are increasingly able to stay abroad. Unfortunately, migration, hope for a better living, due to domestic wages seriously below the EU average, hundreds of thousands of our Hungarian compatriots are already living and working according to the Fidesz diction in the declining Western states. In view of this, the consular system is important, as Hungarian citizens must feel the support of their country. The first serious dilemma concerns the training and examination obligation of consular administrators, as defined by us, since instead of tightening up the reasoning, the text of the bill clearly relaxes the requirements. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that my interpretation here is the real or the wording of the justification, because I think that the requirements for an increased high level of performance of tasks should be increased rather than reduced. In order to say that, on occasion, because of the appointment of János Volner, the Hungarian Parliament amends the law, who has submitted a proposal for an amendment to the electoral law to assist your one-party overpowerment, which you are happy to vote for, because it came from you, in fact, that the Hungarian foreign service is used as a kind of paying place after such Judas proposals, I think that the Hungarian foreign service deserves more. In addition, the next line of thought in this regard also applies to the fact that our country's international judgment has been seriously impaired in the course of the last 13 years. I think that all Hungarian citizens who are now abroad talking to the citizens of the host country feel the country they come from. From a Fidesz one-party overpower, the majority of our allies in both NATO and the European Union see the Hungarian government as unreliable; not the Hungarian citizens, the Fidesz Hungarian government, but unfortunately it affects all Hungarian citizens who are forced to travel on the international scene with this stamp. It is an important and precise stage of this package of laws to clarify the security classifications for each country and to better dissipate these classifications, as this will help those serving in the foreign service and Hungarian citizens to be informed before travelling to that country. It is everyone's personal decision, but it is the duty of the foreign service to warn Hungarian citizens about the risks of entering the country. This is what I wanted to say about the legislative package, and now let's see our country's external relations in a slightly comprehensive way. As the Conservative Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to make this process understandable to everyone. I think that the kind of ever narrowing international space that makes it almost impossible to enforce the Hungarian national interest these days is an extremely sad development from the point of view of Hungary's country. I think I could refer to what happened last time in Bratislava, where there was a joint meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committees of the Visegrád countries, and, of course, I took part in this meeting as Vice-President, and I also spoke in the debate. So Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz, the Fidesz government, have led the country to the point that his last allies have defected from him, such as the Polish PiS or even the Italian Prime Minister, Mrs Meloni, who clearly see what motivates the Fidesz one-party overpower. According to our centre-right conservative party, in 2023, right-wingness cannot be a nuisance in our country, it must not mean pro-Russianism and nagging, which you are really witnessing every day, such as when the Hungarian Prime Minister mocks the name of the Ambassador of the United States of America. Dear fellow Members, do you really think that this is the Hungarian national interest? 'Cause I think you're seeing a really bad movie these days. I think that, in the current state, the security and peace of Hungarian citizens is also Europe; Europe and NATO, nothing but Putin, as you think or your comrade Bencsik thinks, who, thinking back on his old communist past, is rooting for the Russians, still serving the Russians. That's your position. And we, pro-European conservative politicians, say Russkies, home. We carry the flag of 1956 with holes, because we want just peace, because we believe that since Trianon, Hungarian citizens know the difference between just peace and the peace of Fidesz, Putini, which is the peace of November 4, 1956, the peace of the tracks and the unmarked tombs, the peace of the tombs of Bucsa. That's your peace you're saying here. [[11.50]] I think that our country has a clear value choice ahead of us. The security and peace of Hungarian citizens is exclusively a good alliance of European nations... which, according to Jobbik-Conservatives, does not mean that everything must be taken over from the West; because there are many things in which we, as conservatives, of course, do not agree with certain liberal headshadows in the European Union, either with regard to family policy or with others. But that doesn't mean you have to act like the Fidesz is doing anti-Western inciting. I remember it from my age, the communists did it in the same style, I even know the sentences. The only thing on the cake is that some Communist propagandaists at the time have now painted themselves orange. Congratulations. This is your choice of values. We declare that the security and peace of Hungarian citizens can be ensured by our good NATO allies as a defense alliance, including the United States of America. So I think that the sad play you played here during the accession to Finland and Sweden, which began with the fact that after the NATO summit in Madrid, the Hungarian foreign diplomacy, Mr. State Secretary, promised Finland and Sweden that we would ratify NATO accession in both cases at one of the first meetings in the autumn, and then it turned out that you repeatedly lied not only in Hungary, but also abroad, and started this sad game, of which I would not even like to talk about, because in both the House Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there were simply infinitely offensive and unworthy processes taking place in our view, when you referred to everything as how to delay this process. Then, when the Turkish sultan decided that Finland had already done what it required of Turkey and Russia, you presented it and voted for Finland's accession. As Turkey is still trying to negotiate a little in terms of Sweden, and you are still trying to negotiate for EU funds, using this, instead of restoring the rule of law, balanced civil democracy in our country, because then we would get the European Union funds immediately, but you are obviously unable to do so, and therefore, in terms of Sweden, they are dragging back the decision that we believe violates the Hungarian national interest. After all, the Hungarian national interest would dictate that Finland, the country that has an excellent army and won the war against the Soviet-Russian troops in World War II, and also, through linguistic kinship, we have had a positive view of our country in the past in the course of your non-beneficial activity, which has now been largely destroyed, unfortunately, and then we are working on this to change, and we have become unreliable allies in the eyes of a strong NATO alliance with a prominent army in Sweden, whose long-term consequences are unfortunately felt by all Hungarian citizens. I think that this is a very dangerous road, and I think that an urgent correction should be made, because we should not be allowed to allow the Fidesz government to push us to the east side of Europe once again. No, no, never! Since St. Stephen, we have joined Western Christianity and European values, which mean rule of law, Greek philosophy and Christian culture. These are the values that Hungarian foreign policy should stand for. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-04-13-70	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Novak Elok, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the 14-page bill on the amendment of certain laws on foreign affairs, there is an outrageous detail, and I would like to draw your attention first of all to this, as I have already noticed at first reading that they would loosen the conditions for the consul, for future consuls. Most importantly, the new ones should no longer have two years of administrative practice. During the huge over-subscription, this step backwards was obviously personalized because of someone who doesn't have the practice in this direction. And then we can think of the public uproar and perhaps the news that the former better Member of Parliament, János Bencsik, will receive a diplomatic mandate from the Orbán government in addition to others, but now he will remain with the consular regulations, in particular the Consul General of Toronto. The system of national cooperation, therefore, seems to have someone in mind, the traitors and those who are needed in politics. János Bencsik now admitted that he would become a diplomat of the Orbán government. This could also be called the robbery of a corpse on the body of Jobbik, but since we are talking of a person unfit for diplomatic service, of no value in this regard, and this is not my subjective opinion, but of the consul, especially the chief consul, János Bencsik - in this sense we should not call it a corpse robbery, but rather an unconventional political deal, which knows what was behind the scenes, in the background. However, it is certain that a dream job in diplomacy is the chief consul post, especially the chief consul post, but it is also the consular post, and it is almost impossible to get into diplomatic bodies with a number of degrees, five language exams, and we could list the stories that have been used to impress us after these scandalous appointments came to light. So now, once the amendments to certain foreign affairs laws are on the agenda, allow me to provide a little international look-out on the basis of the programme of the Mi Hazank Movement Virradat, starting first with the European Union, because it was just yesterday 20 years ago that a referendum on accession to the European Union was held in Hungary. The EU is currently operating as a globalist empire in a colonial line. It is no longer a covert ideology for the creation of European united states by creating a mixed population dreamed up in the so-called Kalegi Plan. The aim is to completely eliminate the European nation states and thus the resistance. The globalist forces are the leaders of the world's largest multinational corporations and banking industry. They include selected politicians, media leaders, who always play a subordinate role, because politics and the media need money, and that is in the hands of the money people. The Bilderberg Group and the World Economic Forum are two of the most important organizations of globalist forces that are visible to the public. There are large overlaps between the members of the two closed groups: the President of the World Economic Forum, Klaus Schwab, was also a member of the Bilderberg Group's Steering Committee. The Bilderberg Group is a private company consisting of the most influential people in the world: businessmen, scientists, media personalities, moneymen, politicians. The World Economic Forum is, in fact, a foundation created by the thousands of largest global giant companies in the world, and it is still managed by these gigantic multinational companies. Although these forces are by nature international and present on all continents, they are largely located in New York, Paris, and London. Since freemasons are their historical ideological predecessors, it is understandable that the number one center, the mother country of globalists, is the USA, which was practically founded by freemasons. This globalist circle is also the deep state of the United States of America and the European Union, which encourages the development of a two-polar political system, a political transition economy that can always be controlled more easily. Whether there is a republican or a democratic president at the head of the United States, a pro-ethnic or a social democrat, there is a liberal at the summit of the European Commission, the actual leadership is always in the hands of the deep state, the financial, economic and political processes are also controlled by this globalist force, by the deep state in its own interests and by assisting and international assistance from the Fidesz government. It is no wonder that the European Union is, in fact, an American sphere of influence. With or without NATO, sometimes, but European countries have been sending their soldiers to fight and die for America and Israel in symbiosis with the US for decades. [[12.00]] With the lives of many European and American soldiers, the Middle East, North Africa and Afghanistan have been bombed and continuously destabilized, bringing security to Israel, a great deal of money to the globalist forces and, at the same time, millions of migrants to Europe for the Kalegi plan. The Hungarian Movement, on the other hand, introduced a new concept, since, according to our party's wording, we Hungarians belong to the northern civilization from the Celtic Cultural Circle, i.e. from the Irish Isle to Kamchatka and Japan, and carry its eastern and western heritage. We consider it necessary, while maintaining our western relations, to promote and encourage the continuation of the Eastern opening and to build relations with any friendly country. In our bilateral relations, it is desirable to establish a partnership, where the parties are interested in fair cooperation on the basis of mutual benefits. For the sake of Hungary's sovereignty, we must remove the role of subjection that our accession to the European Union has played. The events that have been taking place for years in neighbouring Ukraine illustrate how independent Hungary is at present. It is clear that in Ukraine the interests of two great powers, the US and Russia, are at odds. Speech is that the US has spent more money on the arms of Ukraine in the last year alone than on the nine-year-old war in Afghanistan, in which the United States has been openly involved, not just as sly as it is now in Ukraine. The US and Brussels, in particular, the globalist interests, served in an uncritical manner, joined the economic sanctions against Russia and then the war, which hurt our country a great deal. In the meantime, Ukraine took on an unprecedented anti-Hungarian activity instead of thanks: Hungarians were restricted in Transcarpathia, terror attacks took place against the headquarters of the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia, Hungarian politicians from Hungary and the Highlands were banned from Ukraine without any justification. If Hungary were indeed an independent country, instead of imposing economic sanctions against Russia, which are harmful to us, the results of the referendum on Transcarpathia in 1991 should be required to be incorporated into the law. This referendum decided on the self-determination of Transcarpathia. It was 20 years ago that a referendum on our accession to the Union was held in Hungary on 12 April 2003. Should we be members or free? This could have been the question, of course, but there was one-sided propaganda, and the question was about something else, the campaign, the public speech, the so-called information that was carried out in Hungary on behalf of the European Union Public Communication Foundation, out of billions of public funds, with unilateral propaganda. Am I, on the other hand, a member or a free member? I have campaigned with a password in the framework of civil society organisations against joining the European Union towards the United States. And ever since then, the situation has deteriorated, and the European Union is increasingly talking about intervention in our internal affairs, and now the Child Protection Act is under attack. While the economic priority has been put in the background, and even in the interests of America, we are suffering amazing damage due to the so-called sanctions against Russia, to which Hungary has unfortunately assisted and supported it instead of the veto. The concept based on the strengthening of national economy and national sovereignty, which represents the programme of Our Hungary's Virradat, is contrary to the current globalist efforts in Western Europe, that is, to the EU in Brussels. In English, the goals set by the Hungarian Movement could not be achieved in the current EU. The ongoing attack on European-level national strengthening efforts in recent years and the violent process of the EU's globalist leadership trying to melt Europe into a globalist empire rather than a nation is currently showing that the 21st century is a globalist empire. In the twenties of the century, we must begin to prepare for a life outside the EU. We are net contributors, and we have to say this, because belonging to the EU is primarily in the interests of the former so-called core countries; compared to the money received from the Alliance, significantly higher amounts are flowing out of our country and enriching countries that regard us as the market and use cheap labour, raw materials and lower wage levels. The multinational companies in Western Europe are making more profits from our country every year than the amount of money coming from the EU. Therefore, our country's Movement demands an equal partnership. We are not opposed to reasonable cooperation within Europe, but we are not willing to belong to an alliance where there are also privileged seed countries and disadvantaged, treated, peripheral nations. In an alliance of equal, equal countries, in a Europe of nations, we would be happy to work or work, to make efforts, to make sacrifices to improve our own and our surrounding world. Unfortunately, at the moment, however, our country is the only party in Hungary that would hold a referendum on our membership of the EU. However, if the EU's spiritual, economic and moral destruction proved to be permanent and irreversible, the Hungarian Movement, let us say, would hold a referendum in 2029, like the Brexit, in order to remain a member of the Union. In the event of a negative majority response, the exit process should start at around 2030. In the meantime, however, we can begin to implement this programme, with a maximum of years of otherwise pointless infringement proceedings. Thomas Piketty, the famous French star economist, also calculated that more profits are going out from Hungary to the West than EU funding is coming back. Although according to the Hungarian Movement, it is impossible to leave overnight or even from one year to the next, but the balance sheet of our accession to the EU needs to be drawn up, other options should be taken into account, by concluding bilateral economic cooperation agreements with other countries and by strengthening and extending the V4, for example, Croatia. In any case, there is life outside the Union and also after the Union has ceased, so it must be prepared. Therefore, from an economic point of view, there is no need to be afraid of exit itself. Currently, EU subsidies account for 4 per cent of GDP, while Western companies account for 7 per cent of GDP. And this rate will be even worse after 2021, because cohesion funds will be reduced and we are expected to be net contributors in 2028. If we were not EU members, we would not have an embargo with Russia. At the same time, we could maintain current economic relations with most EU Member States through interstate agreements. And finally let me also say that, unfortunately, our country is the only party that would withdraw Hungary from the jurisdiction of the Strasbourg Court, because the Hungarian prison conditions are really unworthy, unworthy of what politicians deserve, for example. There is a need to withdraw from the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of Strasbourg, and there is no other way, for example, to curb the prison damage business that is becoming almost an industry, which is still going on, if not on the previous scale, but is still going on in Hungary. He's lying, who says otherwise, or who promises self-sustaining prisons while we're building a new prison in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County from billions. And anyone who maintains the jurisdiction of the Court of Strasbourg does not provide, for example, self-sustaining prisons, because the ECHR in Strasbourg is not only damaging our self-determination, but also protecting convicted criminals. Dear Parliament, Thus, the bill amending certain laws on foreign affairs does not bring about a paradigm change in Hungary's foreign policy and international relations, and therefore the Mi Hazank Movement, no matter how constructive a opposition party, cannot support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-13-72	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, from the DK Group, for a two-minute comment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-13-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It's just a short reaction. My fellow Member Vejkey called the Russians a pro-war! The poster. Well, if something symbolizes peace and freedom, the memory of the 1956 Revolution and the fight for freedom, it's the Russkies home! Subtitles by Red Bee Media To say today in the Hungarian Parliament, thirty or a few years after the change of regime, that it is pro-war, the betrayal of 1956. That's extremely sad. The other thing he said was, what if there was a left-wing government here? [[12.10]] If it were a left-wing government, then Hungary would not be diplomatically isolated, so, as before 2010, the US President and the Russian President would give each other the handle, as the German Chancellor, the Spanish King and the French President did before 2010. By the way, Hungary was a reliable ally of NATO and the European Union at the time, and EU funds came to Hungary accordingly. Klára Dobrev's shadow government is the only guarantee that this relationship will return to normal and that Hungary will be a free, democratic and European country again. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-74	Thank you. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, from the KDNP Group, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-75	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Our fellow Member Gréczy raised a very interesting question about the betrayal of 1956. Who betrayed 1956? We, on the Fidesz-KDNP side, who represent the civil-national Christian community, are the children, grandchildren, great-grandsons of freedom fighters, that is clear. As opposed to us, however, your party is not for those who fought for freedom as children, grandchildren, great-grandsons. So if we are talking about who can tell us, then this is a dead end, my fellow Member. It's strange to hear it from your mouth, and it's strange to hear that you're protecting the Americans, the Americans who abandoned us at the time, because they agreed with Khrushchev, and rather let them, the agreement was that they were going to Suez, the Russians are coming here, and our ancestors froze in blood, killed them, died, or maimed them, so it's interesting. Therefore, because we have such a history, we can say that we are not and refuse, and we do not understand the questions, how can we be any kind of party, Russian, Ukrainian, whatever party they are. No! Ladies and gentlemen. We are neither pro-Russian nor Ukrainian; we are Hungarian pro-Hungarians. We were Hungarian pro-Hungarians in 1956, and we are Hungarian pro-Hungarians now, and please, I would very much like you to be the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-13-76	Thank you very much. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Elijah Boglárka, the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-77	Thank you for the floor. I did not wish to respond to what was said by a separate party, because I believe that people, Hungarian voters, can properly judge the credibility of what has been said. But the fact that an anno Jobbik for Hungary Movement and Jobbik for Hungary Party [[Sic!]] The representative of the party bearing the name is defending the US Ambassador, and the interest in the US is expressed more often than the Hungarian national interest in his speech in the debate on the bill amending certain foreign affairs laws, I think it is facial toaster. Perhaps it would have been more honest with your constituents if they changed their name to the name of Jobbik for America, immediately after Jobbik for Hungary, and the Jobbik-Conservatives missed an intermediate station. But as far as Hungarian foreign policy is concerned, I would like to respond mainly to the DK speech, because I think that it is not necessary or necessary in relation to the Western world, it is worth defining, but rather along the interests of Hungary. Hungarian interests are not derived from the interests of the US Ambassador and not from the interests of the US Ambassador, but rather from the interests of the Hungarian people, so I would like to ask that your concern be put on the arrival of Hungarian people as soon as possible, rather than directed towards their arrival. Unfortunately, we understand why you talk about America or why you talk more about America in the left-wing benches of the opposition, and not about Hungary, because you do not want to meet the Hungarian people, you want to meet your clients, and it is not important for you what is in the interests of the Hungarian people, but what is important is that the rolling dollars arrive as soon as possible. Once again, I would like to summarise what the lead speaker of DK and the lead speaker of our country, who proclaims himself constructive, have clearly indicated that their faction wishes or wishes to vote no. In this bill, I think it is important to point out that they want to vote against the advance of health costs by foreign representation for those who perform public service. What I was pleased to hear, however, is that all of you are appreciative of those who perform foreign service and are practicing this profession. Therefore, in the event that they have to carry out this service at a place where health costs are expected to exceed even the million items, this proposal seeks to provide an opportunity for the foreign representation to advance these costs in order to provide their families with adequate income support and not to cause family turbulence. And what is it that you wish to vote against? They also wish to vote against the possibility of making cash payments more widely in the event of operational disruptions in the event of a possible crisis. I think that if you look around the world, it is not possible to say that, unfortunately, crises would be less frequent, and for this reason, I think that voting 'no' is something to consider. They also wish to vote against the fact that registration services for the consular protection of Hungarian citizens travelling abroad or abroad are to be named by law. They also wish to vote against the creation of a fourth category for the country's security classification, which would allow for a significant risk, which is clearly stated in the proposal, but even by providing consular protection, travel to the country and insurance linked to this journey. [[Sic!]] I therefore urge you to consider these, because I believe that all these amendments look at the interests and aspects of those who pursue their vocation in the foreign service and wish to provide better conditions for Hungarian citizens travelling abroad or staying abroad, and I therefore continue to ask you to support the proposal before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-13-78	Thank you. I give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let's get some things straightened out with our past, because now it turns out that the current US President is to blame for the 1956 American attitude. When you're hugging Turkish President Erdoğan, it's obviously II. They support Suleiman, who conquered Hungary and came here for 150 years? Let us take Hungarian diplomacy and Hungarian foreign relations a little more seriously. Worrying about 1956 as a Fidesz and KDNP politician, while taking the statue of the martyr Prime Minister from Kossuth Square and eliminating the Kossuth Square eternal flame, the fifty-six eternal flame, because it has also been removed from memory of, say, the Kossuth Square volley fire or Imre Nagy's famous speech on October 23rd, I think it is quite disappointing, adding that the 56th Institute was also planned by you, which, by the way, created an extremely important documentary base with, among other things, long-term interviews with living witnesses that are an important part of the Hungarian national memory. To say that those whose ancestors agreed with the Soviets who defeated the revolution, or with the Communists of the time, are sitting in the opposition benches, I could, for a long time, name those members of the same party who were members of the same party of state, with smaller or larger ones, and, by the way, there are plenty of red communists among their ancestors, so I would certainly not open that question if I were Congressman Vejkey. It has also been said here that they do not support Russia and not Ukraine, but Hungary. [[12.20]] Peter Szijjártó has been in Moscow four times since the outbreak of the war, not once in Kiev. Do you think this is equal treatment in both cases? I don't think so. Then it was said here that the opposition was pro-war. How can the opposition be pro-war when the Orbán government buys the world's most expensive gas from the Russians, making an extra contribution to the Hungarian taxpayers' money to allow Russia to buy weapons and bomb residential buildings, bomb hospitals, bomb social institutions, and otherwise dig mass graves with its soldiers? ! So if anyone here is pro-war, the opposition cannot be pro-war, because any decision on war or peace depends only on the government that controls this country with full power. I think it is very important that Hungarian diplomacy should be balanced. This balance has been maintained by all governments since the change of regime until 2010. The country had foreign ministers who were very, very careful about this: from Géza Jeszenszky through János Martonyi, from Gyula Horn to László Kovács or even to King Göncz, there were foreign ministers in the country who considered this kind of balance important. This balance simply has to be said,, lost, it is not there, so deep the pit of crises has been dug up by the Orbán government in personal relations. So we are talking about the Dutch Prime Minister, we are talking about Swedish, Finnish leaders, French Presidents, as we do not speak to each other on the street under civilised conditions. By the way, we have qualification terms in relation to the leaders of allied countries and countries that decide on our EU resources, which are simply contrary to all the written and unwritten rules of diplomacy and seriously undermine the Hungarian national interest. It would be in Hungary's national interest to be friendly with these countries, normally; not under-subsidiarity, not bowing, always knowing exactly what the national interest is. But the national interest can never be that we are committed to Russia, and the world press describes the Hungarian government as Putin's finch. This cannot be in Hungary's interest. Today's debate will also be given to diplomats performing here in the foreign service, and they will see that the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP abuse the European Commission, the United States, which are our allies. This is simply not worth Hungary financially, morally, politically or in any way; and this is the sin of the Orbán government. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-80	Thank you, Congressman. I do not see any requests for further speeches by Members. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a speech, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author. [[Azbei Tristan says he wants to speak.]] The rapporteur wishes to speak in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-04-13-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank you for the supporting contributions that have been made during the debate and also to reflect on the constructively critical points raised in the proposal. I should like to clarify the proposed change in the terms of appointment of consular and consular administrators. It is true that the two-year administrative practice is part of the proposal. In view of the fact that, in our experience, life and practice have shown that, because of the specific nature of consular work, it has not always been a real added value and has made it difficult for public administrations not to, but in other relevant areas, to have significant experience in the placement of staff, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the poster takes into account the existence of multi-annual traineeships in other relevant areas. Following this amendment, we want to link the practical length to the previous consular work experience rather than to the examination. Anyone who has worked in a consular position will have a minimum of one month of practical time required by law, who does not, for at least two months of practice. At the same time, this period will be extended by the new proposed legislation. I would also like to remind you that, along with all these changes, all consular officials should continue to successfully pass the consular exam for placement and appointment. This can be done during a very strict examination trip, with an examination committee with several wallets chaired by its representative, its member and the Ministry of Justice. These were the comments that were made specifically on the bill. We have also heard general comments on the foreign policy of the Hungarian Government, Hungary. These, although they were not closely concerned with the subject of the proposal, ultimately the proposal is about creating a professional and administrative background for the enforcement of Hungarian national interests and improving them. Therefore, in general, I would respond at a few points. The way in which Hungary's diplomatic relations system has been weakened in recent years has been considered by opposition representatives. In this connection, I would like to point out that Hungary has been and continues to be a committed member of the international federal systems: both Europeans and the Western Alliances in general and the other multilateral federal systems in which it has entered. We live, respect our obligations in this regard, and we take advantage of our opportunities and rights. And the fact that we will not allow the members of these alliances or these alliances themselves to go beyond our national interests beyond the areas to which these alliances have been established and because of which we have joined these alliances, we will not allow that. We will address these experiments with respect but strong criticism. We are committed members of NATO, among other things, the European Union. But there are red lines that our allies cannot cross. They must act as allies, they must not interfere with Hungarian domestic affairs. Even if they are from an ally country, the foreign diplomatic representations or representatives who have been ordered here cannot take the liberty of interfering with Hungarian internal politics in areas of national competence by criticising the Hungarian electoral will in a totally disrespectful and unacceptable way, if any. We are committed members of our allies' system, but we do not accept that if this alliance or its member decides to move in a direction, he will take steps that would put the Hungarian national interest in an existential danger. For example, any effort to lead to an escalation of war in the event of the war in Ukraine. Such are all attempts to impose sanctions by reference to war, which have no results in the direction of peace-building, but in a retort, self-destructive way, endanger the fundamental economic and national strategic and even security interests of Hungary and, by the way, of Europe, and of the western world and of the rest of the world. [[12.30]] In relation to isolation: you call the situation of Hungarian foreign relations isolated, and this is blamed by us, the Hungarian government and the foreign affairs apparatus. If your claim were true, we would not have been able to mobilise our external relations system when the protection against the coronal virus epidemic required the purchase of vaccines or medical aids, in which Hungary performed outstandingly in the European Union. This is how we were able to protect the lives of the Hungarian people and protect their health by relying on our foreign relations system. If we were not committed members of our allies, at the same time we would not have a constructive, open diplomatic relations system based on mutual respect and the search for each other's interests outside our federal systems, for example, Hungary's energy security and supply would not have been resolved in the past, very difficult and critical period. This is precisely what this bill is all about, it is true, not in foreign policy areas, but it would create the conditions that are necessary for me to allow myself, for example, in crisis zones, in currently active war countries, at locations of armed conflict: it gives our heroically performing diplomats in Hungarian diplomatic foreign service the administrative conditions to represent Hungary in these circumstances. It is also part of this bill, which has already been expressed by several opposition factions on the bill, that it will not be supported to allow Hungary's visitors in dangerous, risky countries to be protected even more effectively. In addition, there was a distasteful political reference that I cannot go to, and I see such a cognitive dissonance among opposition parties. So in a debate there was the slander and accusation that Hungarian diplomats would be appointed on the basis of Fidesz party political sympathy. In the same debate, the announcement of a consular official whose political statements, political statements of the political movement founded by him, the highly government-critical wordings of the political movement, can be accused of anything but fidesz party sympathy. I also reject what has been said here in this debate to declare someone unfit, even worthless, because of his political record or his views. In contrast, the reality is that participation in the Hungarian External Action Service, representing Hungary, is a condition of national commitment, professional competence, intention and ability to represent the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian nation effectively abroad. That is why I ask once again for the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-13-82	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. There will be a general debate on the bill amending individual laws in connection with the development of public administration until closure. Government referral T/3514. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-04-13-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us includes minor or larger amendments to 13 laws, which have a wide spectrum of content, while at the same time serving both to make life easier for clients and administrators and to make it even clearer for administrators so that they can apply uniform law throughout the country in the course of their proceedings. Two major amendments to the bill relate to citizenship and civil status procedures. In preparing the proposals, the common denominator is the official experience gathered during the application of the law of the Government Office of Budapest Capital in matters of nationality, domestic registration and name change. In the majority of the amendments, the development of case law and the improvement of the efficiency of procedures motivated the development of legislative proposals. For years, in the area of citizenship and civil status, the objective has been to identify and address problems in the application of public law, anomalies arising from different interpretations of the law; this is not the case with the current bill. With regard to the amendments, the detailed explanation provides sufficient information, so I would like to highlight only the more comprehensive and, by definition, more significant elements. Dear Parliament, The institution of simplified naturalization was the legislator's response to the injustices of Hungarian history in relation to our Hungarian countrymen and their descendants who had broken across the border. The validity of simplified naturalization, its merit for more than a decade, is indisputable. Unfortunately, as you can learn from the Hungarian Gazette from time to time, there are individuals who are fraudulently, misleadingly, cast a shadow on this legal institution and wish to gain citizenship by their unlawful conduct. For this reason, strengthening the institution of withdrawal is of the utmost importance for the preservation of the prestige of Hungarian citizenship. The bill aims to provide a solution for the law-abiding parties, balanced between the guarantee rules of withdrawal and the procedural instruments for the effectiveness of the procedure, with social and national security interests related to the withdrawal of fraudulently acquired Hungarian citizenship. The 1993 LV on Hungarian citizenship The purpose of the amendment of the law is to create a clear situation by stating that the date of birth and the Hungarian nationality of the parent at that time are important for the facts affecting the formation of Hungarian citizenship, even if the family relationship is only later. In fact, the amendment declares an interpretation of the law in practice. The bill simplifies the acquisition of Hungarian citizenship for minors born in Hungary who, for some reason, become homeless. The amendment is forward-looking and consistent with international efforts to eliminate stateless persons. In the case of the acquisition of Hungarian citizenship by naturalisation and re-introduction, Hungarian language knowledge is a consistent and legitimate expectation, which applies to certain forms of naturalization through the completion of the basic constitutional knowledge examination, while in other procedures the Hungarian language knowledge is checked upon receipt of the application. On the basis of this, it is appropriate, on the basis of practical experience, to establish, in the naturalization procedures where the conditions of naturalization include the successful completion of the examination of the basic constitutional knowledge, that, in the case of legal grounds for exemption, the Hungarian language knowledge should be examined and verified. [[12.40]] In addition, the bill also responds to provisions relating to data protection and data processing on the agenda for the Citizenship Act. In this context, for example, a comprehensive review may be carried out of the data content and the scope of notifications to be made following the taking of an oath or a vow of nationality. In addition, when preparing the legislative amendment, it was also apparent that the obligation to provide information on potential combatants appears as an unjustified administrative burden on the part of the body acting in matters of citizenship, which was proposed in parallel to the amendment of the Citizenship Act in Article XXI of 2022 on defence data management. It shall terminate by repealing the provisions of law concerned. Dear House, Turning to the amendment of Act I of 2010 on the civil status procedure, it can be said that the regulatory need is also the result of the indications of law enforcement by the public authorities, but the changes to this law already include aspects raised in the course of IT developments as well as efforts to simplify procedures. The amendment significantly reduces the administrative burden of the authority by eliminating the need to switch to the whole procedure and the request and decision to suspend the procedure. Practical experience has shown that, as in the case of requests for exhibitions, the extract submitted in person should also be able to be issued by a professional consular officer of the foreign representation designated as the place of reception, as the registrar. Instead of travelling extracts, it is appropriate to prioritise the issue of extracts at foreign representations, which will contribute to the development of public administration, even cross-border, according to modern and civic needs. Since the introduction of the electronic register, there have been increasing cases of changes in data that affect the marriage name of the ex-husband or wife following the termination of the marriage. As a result of a change in trends affecting marriage name ownership and an increase in the number of data changes affecting birth name ownership, it is increasingly necessary that the electronic registry treats data even in the event of termination of marriage, including a change in the marriage name resulting from the change in the birth name. This is important not only for the electronic register, but also for the registration of personal data and address and thus indirectly for the maintenance of all public registers, so that the amendment also lays down a transitional rule for the ex officio review of the data content of the electronic register and for the ex officio registration of the change. Dear Parliament, XCIII of 1990 on levies LXXXV of 1996 on the amendment of Act No 18 and on the administrative service fee for a certified copy of the deed. Law 32/A Pursuant to § (1) of the Law on Property Registration, unless otherwise provided for in the Fee Act, a fee of HUF 6600 shall be paid per property covered by the procedure. The property registration, administration and service fee for the registration of an administrative or locational change for municipal authorities, if it affects a large number of real estate, represents a one-off but very significant additional budgetary burden. Therefore, the aim of the regulation is to reduce the administrative and financial burden on customers, in particular municipal authorities. The bill therefore maximizes the administrative service fee of HUF 6600 to be paid per property in HUF 200,000 in the case of the registration of real estate registration of a change in administrative or location limits, thus removing a significant financial burden from the municipalities concerned. On the basis of the bill, the new provision of the Fee Act may also apply to pending proceedings. Dear Parliament, CLVI 2016 on State tasks in the development of tourism areas. It is justified to amend and supplement law in several places. Accommodation service providers joined the NTAK system of the National Tourist Data Service Centre in 2019. The obligation to provide information on catering shops and tourist attractions starts from 1 July 2023, instead of 1 January 2023, by amending the Tourism Act. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that CXXVII of 2007 on general sales tax. make it easier to put into service the software that is capable of carrying out statutory receipts and related data reporting to the State tax authority, with the appropriate legal changes and the extension of the NTAK's function. Dear House, The proposals aim to simplify and speed up administrative administration for both customers and public authorities, thereby contributing to reducing administrative burdens and enforcing electronics efforts. Based on what has been said, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to János Kiss, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Let me begin by saying that our everyday life in the political sense is about the very serious challenges we are facing, and we are having a very serious struggle. I think anyone who followed today's debate can sense that there are very serious topics on the table. If I have the opportunity to talk about these topics for one thought in the introduction, then in summary, it is between the serious topics and challenges that we are fighting the challenges of war, fighting for peace, at least we Fidesz-KDNP representatives are fighting for peace, because we are truly pro-peaceists and we are struggling to stay out of this war as long as the war continues. At the same time, we are struggling with the migratory pressure on Europe and Hungary and, in our opinion, we are struggling with faulty sanctions in Brussels and the resulting inflationary pressures, and of course we are struggling to ensure that Hungary's energy security is sustainable. This is when we are amazed at the left-wing claims that it is not nice to buy gas from Russia, because the price of gas supports Russia in this war. I would ask my fellow left-wing Members where to buy gas from, because Hungary has to buy gas from somewhere, the Hungarian industry cannot stop, the lives and energy security of the Hungarian people cannot cease, and Hungary's security must not cease. So I think these are very serious issues. And there is another serious issue that I would like to mention for one sentence: we are struggling for Hungary to obtain the European Union funds that belong to Hungary. Here in the debate, it was said that some left-wing parties are also supposed to be fighting for this. This must be a very special fight, because I have never heard a speech from a Hungarian left-wing EU Member in Brussels, whose last sentence asked that the subsidies due to Hungary be paid. It's always the last sentence that counts, the circle is less important. The point matters, the last sentence. The fight for Hungary's European resources, who ends his speech in the European Parliament by asking for the payment of these resources. Tighter on the presentation, it should be said that we are indeed living among great political challenges, and there are great political stakes on the table, but we should also not forget so-called ordinary affairs. [[12.50]] This is why we welcome this current bill, which deals with matters that may have less or less interest in political terms, but it is important for the Hungarian public administration, and it deals with issues that are very much relevant to the everyday life of citizens and Hungarian institutions. And it sets itself the goal of dealing with the changing needs of these ordinary laws. I think that this is a very good thing, that we must not only address major political issues, no matter how important they are, and as much as they define our daily lives, life does not stop, we must also keep on dealing with the issues of good governance, which may seem to be minor issues. I would like to highlight it myself, as the Secretary of State has already pointed out in his exposé, the 1993 LV on Hungarian citizenship. I am also pleased that the law proposes to clarify the rules on the withdrawal of citizenship in this amendment proposal. For it is an important legal institution, it is important that this legal institution is drawn up with the corresponding legal accuracy in the law. The importance of the institution is that it is necessary to give the appropriate Hungarian organisations the opportunity, in any case, to withdraw the nationality of those who acquired citizenship by misleading an authority, organisation or institution, under a legally regulated procedure. We believe that this is also a priority national security interest, and it cannot be the subject of the debate under any circumstances that there can be no legal gaps in the acquisition of Hungarian citizenship or, if this is due to some legal condition, in terms of its withdrawal. We also welcome another stage in the administrative reduction, which is XCIII of 1990 on levies. LXXXV of 1996 on the amendment of the Act and on the administrative service fee for a certified copy of the deed. It appears in the amendment of the law, which in effect translates into Hungarian means that certain procedures become cheaper. This is precisely about the fact that in so-called multi-property procedures, when a single land office procedure affects a large number of properties, this bill maxifies the fee for this procedure in HUF 200,000. So you do not have to pay an individual administrative fee of HUF 6600 per property with an unlimited multiplier, but there will be if the law is adopted, an upper limit. In any case, I think this is good news, especially for the municipalities, since such multi-property procedures typically occur in the interests of the local government. But it's also good news for clients who don't take up government positions in such proceedings. I would also like to highlight the amendment of our Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure, and I would also like to refer to the fact that it is very important to update and update this law, so to speak, because every Hungarian citizen meets several times in his life with the application of this law, even if he does not necessarily realize it, but he does. And that is why the administrative service of Hungarian citizens corresponds to the 21st century. We believe that the legislative effort, the aim of which is to simplify and electronicise this process of procedure, is legitimate. I would also like to speak to the part of the bill that concerns civil community service centres, formerly known as civil centres. The fact is that these centres and centres have been very well integrated into the professional support process of the operation of Hungarian civil society organisations since their establishment and establishment, and the proposal for a bill that would add additional functions to the civil community service centres is welcome. It is precisely that, after the amendment of the law, the activities of the civil community service centres will be extended by conducting the electoral meetings. I think it is a very good thing that in Hungarian reality we not only encourage civil society organisations to participate as actively as possible in public life, but also try to provide them with legal assistance and organizational assistance. Finally, I would like to mention the 2012 XXX on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums. a proposal to amend law, whereby a so-called digital citizenship would be created, allowing foreign Hungarians to be informed about Hungary through an information portal and to reach the full service system and interfaces of Hungarian public authorities and public media. I believe that this measure creates the opportunity and fits into the Hungarian government's responsibility for Hungarians from abroad, so it creates the opportunity for Hungarians from abroad to strengthen their relationship with Hungarian national values, to learn about Hungaricums and also to facilitate the administration of Hungarian public affairs in Hungary. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in all 13 points of the proposal, as Mr Secretary of State has said, it actually contains amendments and additions to 13 laws, a well-collected, well-conscious proposal for all amendments; it is in line with the aims of supporting Hungarian society, the Hungarian institutions. The Fidesz fraction will support the proposal along this line, and I urge everyone to support the proposal in the same way as the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-13-86	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-13-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Before I say a few sentences on the proposal, I would just like to correct my previous position once again, because János Kiss made a comment that, well, where else would we buy gas from the Russians, well, as the Czechs and the Poles and the Slovaks, Romanians and Germans, everyone has managed to stop buying gas from the Russians. And the problem with us is not necessarily that we take it from the Russians, because we have to buy it, obviously we need it, but that we take it the most expensively in the whole world is not okay. And now for the proposal. A significant part of the amendments focus on the amendment of the comprehensive and related legislation on Hungarian citizenship and on the civil status procedure. Here the amendment proposal is contested by the fact that the amendment of the citizenship law finalises a transitional provision so far, on the grounds that the issue of the document may fail for reasons other than the fact that it is recorded without fingerprints but is incomplete and thus hindering the issue of the identity card. Unfortunately, however, the author of the amendment does not specify exactly what these reasons may be. The other problematic, questionable area is the amendment of the Law on fees and the Administrative Service Fee for Certified Property Copy, where administrative service charges payable in the real estate registration procedure relating to changes in administrative boundaries and changes of location are maximized at HUF 200,000 on the grounds that this is intended to reduce the administrative burden on customers, in particular municipal authorities. Which may even be true for customers, and this could be a positive change, since it maximizes the amount of the fee that can be paid; but the municipalities will not see the administrative burden reduced in this amendment, but that they will be deprived of another source of income by the government. [[13.00]] The next problem area in the bill is the amendment of the Hungarian National Values and Hungaricum Act. There would be a website here, the exact content and operation of which is not yet known, because its detailed rules will be made public in a later government decree. Knowledge of the detailed rules is also important because Hungarians across the border will be able to access the service system of Hungarian public authorities or public media through this after a simple registration. So the representation of Hungarians across the border, the representation of their interests are indeed very important and our shared responsibility, and we also believe that clarification is necessary. The next problem with the proposal is the amendment of the law on state tasks in the development of tourist areas, which introduces new software for my guests/guests, my guest/attraction, ticket management software, and also provides for an obligation to issue receipts and will be able to recover them. The exact operation of these two softwares is not yet known; moreover, it is precisely in the field of tourism that it makes it possible to replace the use of the online cash register with the software, which is famous for its ownership to Fidesz-near companies and family members. What makes the provision particularly worrying is that this system is extremely capable of stealing personal data. A good example of this is the use of e-mail addresses registered for vaccination during Covid for government propaganda purposes. In addition, it is a problem with the proposal that we are talking about a salad law, it would have been good to discuss them separately and submit them to the House in a separate bill. Thus, there would be time for everyone to properly analyse the legislative proposals individually, and their adoption would be much easier if they were separated and not summarised in a salad law. So the truth is that some of these laws become virtually incomprehensible to citizens, because there are four or five stories in a package this size that would have been worth the debate individually, but we believe that because of its many shortcomings this will not be eligible. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-13-88	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-13-89	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/3514. In the focus of the amendments contained in its bill No.3 on Hungarian citizenship, LV. Law and the comprehensive amendment of Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure, based on practical experience in recent years. Ladies and Gentlemen, I am pleased to say that the legal institution of simplified naturalisation has worked, so that its validity cannot be the subject of any debate, because every Hungarian citizen with good feeling can feel the importance of this. The aim of the legal institution of revocation is to eliminate the Hungarian citizenship of persons who wanted to cast a shadow on this legal institution by their fraudulent conduct and by misleading the authorities. In view of the above, they should see that strengthening the institution of withdrawal is a social and a high priority for national security. The amendment aims to increase the effectiveness of these procedures by replacing the legal gaps which, in the absence of a legal standard, are intended to be filled by the law enforcement authorities and the courts, sometimes even contrary to the legislative objective. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Ladies and Gentlemen, All Hungarian citizens meet with registration procedures during their lifetime, thus simplifying and electronicizing procedures has been one of the priority areas for many years. The amendment intends to continue this work, in particular, as the Secretary of State has said in his expozee. The bill seeks to answer a number of practical problems, which need to be dealt with by law. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to the above, the draft law provides for an XCIII of 1990 on the levy. LXXXV of 1996 on the amendment of Law No 1 and on the administrative service fee for a certified copy of the deed. It also includes amendments to the Act to maximize administrative service charges to be paid in the real estate registration procedure related to changes and changes in the location of the administrative border to the sum of HUF 200,000. They should be aware that the fee on the real estate registration board for the registration of an administrative or locational change which is exceptionally relevant to local authorities, if it affects a large number of real estate, represents a one-off significant budgetary surplus. However, the regulation now reduces the administrative burden on customers, especially municipal authorities, as it maximizes the administrative service fee of HUF 6600 per property in HUF 200,000. The bill also amends the 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment. Act XXX of 2012 on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums Act CLVI of 2016 on State tasks in the development of tourism areas. a law, which has already been fully explained in detail by the Secretary of State in his expozee. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/3514. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Again, I welcome my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Dudás, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-04-13-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, T/3514 on the amendment of individual laws in connection with the development of public administration Bill No. 1 is a salad law whose main areas of regulation, as has already been mentioned several times, but I would also like to mention: the citizenship law, the civil status law, the Hungaricum law and, in effect, the levy law. In particular, clarification is found and legal gaps are sought to eliminate the amendments and the planned changes are largely technical. Clarification is also made in cases such as the child's nationality with retroactive effect at the date of birth, at the moment of birth in the case of a Hungarian citizen's parent. It was clear that if the child's parent was not a Hungarian citizen at birth, the child would not be according to the blood principle, but this clarification was more clear than the previous text. Where there is a substantial change, it is positive, such as the fact that a certificate of nationality can be requested with more data content, and all changes in the names worn during marriage, must be followed by the administration and the rest. Also positive is the change in the tax law, according to which in the event of changes in administrative or settlement boundaries there will be a maximum of HUF 200,000, which reduces the relevant financial burden on municipalities. What I would like to talk about a little longer is a change in the National Tourism Data Service Center. In your opinion, the expansion of NTAK with catering shops will serve the full digitisation of the tourism sector, providing a comprehensive picture of the sector's traffic and statistics. Under the current legislation, the operator of every catering business operating in Hungary should register its host business in this reporting centre. [[13.10]] In addition to mandatory registration, businesses will have mandatory reporting obligations from 1 July of this year. Last autumn, my fellow Member, Mr László Lukács, Mr Group Leader, repeatedly pointed out that compliance with the obligation to provide data requires serious technical procurement. The purchase of the tools to provide data in the requested way can reach up to HUF 1 million per restaurant. At the end of last year, businesses were therefore deferred and the new deadline was set on 1 July, as indicated in the submission. In our view, the situation remains, if not even more serious, which is also the basis for a further deferral or even a definitive abolition of the obligation, because in the case of the coronal virus epidemic and the current inflation crisis, firms in difficulty are also forced to bear the burden of increased fees, high cost of raw materials and variable but fundamentally negative forint prices. The severity of these shows that the restaurants have been closed in the last few months. The obligation to provide data is a new burden to them, which is unfair to them in such an economic situation. In a normal country, the government does not engage in strategic partnerships with multinationals, but with entrepreneurs, businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises. In view of this, the conservative Jobbik on the side of the smallest enterprises primarily asks that the reporting obligation should not enter into force. If this cannot be accepted, postpone it until 1 July 2024 and support businesses in purchasing costly assets. We have also tabled two amendments to these options, which I have just mentioned, and we would like to ask you to consider supporting one of the possibilities, Secretary of State, to consider the Hungarian Government, preferably not to put this provision into effect.
u2023-04-13-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I would like to ask you now that someone wishes to apply for another speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr István György, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2023-04-13-93	I'd like to make it short.
u2023-04-13-94	Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-04-13-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, Dear House, Firstly, I would like to thank those who have given support to the legislation. Indeed, I think that, in most cases, clarification provisions have been included in the draft legislation, which make it much easier for the administrator to work, to apply the same law, and, of course, to speed up administration, which is in the interest of the customers as well. I would like to reply to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, CEO of DK, on his contribution to the Tourism Act that the new software has already been introduced, with this amendment only facilitating the obligation to provide data to the NAV. NTAK will not process or process personal data today, and will only be used for statistical data collection. I would also like to say to Mr Dudás that the software cost will be HUF 50 to 100 thousand, we do not see this magnitude of the million, but of course his amendments will obviously be discussed during the detailed debate by the competent committee of Parliament, and we will then be able to respond to this. There was one more question, two, to be exact. Congressman Gréczy asked because there is no details on what other problems might be in relation to the fingerprint problem. For example, it is possible that the quality of the photograph taken is inadequate and that it will not be revealed until later; that this should not be an obstacle to taking the oath of citizenship, that the issue of the identity card may be requested later. One more thing, which, in fact, Mr Róbert Dudás, was correctly interpreted in his speech. I would also like to say to Congressman Gréczy that this amendment to the tax law will not increase the burden on local governments. This is only about the fact that, for example, in the case of a public border change, which occurs very rarely, for example, if an administrative unit had previously been formed for decades on the basis of previous decisions, and now the split-up settlements have to pay virtually HUF 6600 per property in order to reflect the new state of real estate registration, which is the result of the decision. I can specifically say such a settlement, they would have to pay HUF 24 million as a ground office procedure fee, instead they would have to pay HUF 200,000. Therefore, in such cases, a single, one-off and lump sum fee should be paid. Otherwise, they will not lose any income, so this has never been municipal revenue, this is the administrative service fee associated with the real estate registration procedure in fact. I wanted to respond to these, and I would ask the honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, to consider united support for the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-13-96	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-13-97	Mr President, Dear House, The community of Jobbik-Conservatives demands a zero bank account package, and we do so on the basis of the research carried out by the Hungarian National Bank and other organizations, which make it clear that the most expensive banking is in Hungary in the whole of the Union. Here we have a philosophical fundamental dispute against the whole system, because we see that the citizens have already spent their money on these financial institutions, and for the use of our own money, they are still taking an amazing shadow off all the affected Hungarian citizens, and it is virtually impossible to exclude themselves from it. Based on the data of the research that took place a year or two ago, the low incomes in Hungary are mainly exposed to brutal, extra tributes being pulled from them. While 1.13 percent of people's money is used as a cost in the low income profile in Hungary, the UK has a real zero bank account, but in France it is 0.18%, in Denmark it is 0.19 percent. With us, once again, over 1 percent, 1.13 percent. This means, in fact, that our low-income compatriots can lose up to a thousand forints per month only by applying different assumed or real costs to banks and financial institutions, they say that they will certainly make more money than the citizens have placed or have arrived. What we can see is that among the high-income people, a considerable amount of money is worth almost 2,000 forints, if you look at how much all the services are charged to our countrymen. It is quite amazing that in France, where the average salary is significantly higher, there is also a bank account package in the high income category that charges the customer an average of HUF 622. We have the same indicator over HUF 1900, so even the high-income Hungarian customer pays three times as much as an intra-EU customer, then a French national on average in this group of accounts in his own bank. We also see that while the Hungarian customer pays over a thousand forints, and here you can really understand a statistical average, a Spanish client can get away with this with 550 forints, a Polish 250 forint, and a French one, say, 622 forints. [[13.20]] It can therefore be seen that the difference is yelling, and therefore the community of Jobbik-Conservatives, which is always in favour of Hungarian small entrepreneurs and Hungarian citizens against the multinational interest, is calling for a zero bank account package to be introduced in a mandatory manner, if you will, which would allow free banking up to the average wage for all basic operations, i.e. either for the taking of money, transfer of funds, direct debit orders and more. We don't want to see unrealistic costs. The banks were originally set up to exchange client money. They profit from this, they profit, and obviously do not need another round of profit, which comes only from managing the money of the customers concerned, and they deduct perceived or even real, but very high costs. That is why we see that there is an absolute place for this new system. It is a consumer protection issue, but it is also a question of protecting families. I wish it were true that the Hungarian family of four or five is the average, but unfortunately very few can raise two or three children; but if we play with the idea that two adults raise two children, which are already approaching or entering the working age, the sum of more than HUF 4,000 for such a family of four, which the banks only charge each month to manage their money, is that. It's a completely unwarranted tribute. In Europe, we are unparalleled and incomprehensible about why Hungarian consumer protection has not developed broad measures to eliminate this phenomenon. Most of all, we see that although banks are supposedly and in principle increasing in a manner that follows inflation, they often raise above it by eliminating their previously not very profitable services, renaming them, and already bringing in the new kind of service much more expensive. The price difference between the two, which often relates to the same service, is far above inflation. Therefore, I stress that we would like to exempt all Hungarian citizens from the negative effects mentioned, and we are determined that the construction of a zero bank account package can help us a lot; so we expect the government to consider its introduction. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-04-13-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Dudás applied for a post-meeting speech: I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-13-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Parliament, I am also not looking for those responsible on this issue, but rather we need to find a solution on a very serious issue. For the past few years, we've been going from crisis to crisis. There have been various crises, let us think of the Covid epidemic, but, by the way, the problem of war is also Hungary and, by the way, the whole world and the whole of Europe, but on the neck of the Hungarian people, which, by the way, has created a situation where the cost of living has increased, food prices have increased, and the price of life itself has increased. It can also be said that in many cases workers have lost their jobs. They lost their jobs in such a way as to endanger the repayment of loans. We have signalled to the Hungarian government many times that we support any measure that actually helps people, it really helps the everyday life of the Hungarian people, but they should be real measures, not pretend measures, and people should not have to read the fine print section and think about what kind of hidings and pitfalls are in it. Let me give you two brief examples of what people have had to face in the last few weeks or months. When the Hungarian government introduced the credit moratorium, it was, or could have been, a very good and important tool to relieve them of the payment burdens they would otherwise have been unable to meet in that period due to, say, the loss of employment, so it is a very good thing. However, it would have achieved its purpose in substance if the strategic alliance and partnership had been made between the government and the population, the people, the families, and not the banks. The reason I'm saying this is because, let's say, if someone has used the credit moratorium for two years, there are, of course, differences between cases and cases, but there are a number of cases that have been communicated to me that after two years of non-payment, the term of payment has been extended, which is natural, but not by two years, but by five years. It's not natural anymore. Another example concerning the banking sector and its attitude is that there was a entrepreneur who, let's say, hired HUF 17 million for his business, repaid 29 million over the years, and then the bank said that he still owed 20. It's called a loan shark, it's a legalized loan shark. And what if someone can't pay for the burden they've undertaken, otherwise they've taken on their own? Well, then the bailiffs show up, we've seen how the executor mafia works over the last few months. The enforcement mafia, which, in recent years and in recent years, has made billions of HUF a year's profit on those in need and on those lost people, who, by the way, are at the mercy of the banks and the next step, and consequently lose the opportunity to live normally, lose the lid above their heads. There would be a solution to this, but the Parliament should create the possibility that the President of the Executive Faculty, who has been in prison for more than a year, would be replaced; a proposal for a resolution has been submitted several times and several times. He's been in prison for over a year, and he's still president of the Executive Faculty! The Deputy Minister of Justice, who may be somewhere at the top of this system, because we don't know, but the leaked documents show that somewhere he was the top leader of this executive mob, he's been suspected of being the main accused and on the loose for over a year. We don't know why they don't want to do something about this. And what is really the biggest problem is the huge problem that has been done in recent months and years, and what is planned for the future, one of the biggest problems is that the Hungarian government is not in its right mind to act on this issue. We should replace the head of the executor's mob in prison. The Deputy Minister should be anyone, and whatever important position he was in should have been put in advance a long time ago. Everything that's going on in this country is called free robbery and legalized loan shark.
u2023-04-13-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
