u2023-05-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Good afternoon, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. The 19th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the leadership of this meeting, Győző Vinnai and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be of assistance to me. Today, as usual, we begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Next, questions will take place, and then an hour of immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude today's Parliament meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Vice President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We thought it would be worthwhile to respond to many of the false claims made by Bence Rétvári, but I think it is perfect what the teachers' unions published in the press release this weekend. I will now read this press release in the hope that we can finally bring this debate to the ground of reality. Communication from the PDS and the PSP Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, the public opinion's misleading statements. [[Bence Rétvári: I refuse!]] We are responding to Bence Rétvári's statement, in which he informed the public that he had fulfilled all of the government's EU commitments and called on us to distance ourselves from violence. Not only do we distance ourselves, but we also condemn violence, especially violence against people, including children, against students who protested at the Carmelite monastery. Contrary to Bence Rétvári's claims, raising teachers' wages is not a condition of EU support; normally no country receives subsidies from the European Union for this purpose. Because the European Union has made an exception to Hungary, it is a particularly bad situation in public education and, in particular, in international statistics working in this area. The Hungarian government can draw the highest amounts through the EFOP PLUSZ program on the title of the pedagogical career. However, there are conditions for this: to create legislation that makes the pedagogical career attractive [[Bence Rétvári: No obligation to legislate!]] which does not deduct acquired rights and does not entail a reduction in autonomy. The proposed new status law, the so-called status law, does not even meet these three conditions, even with the changes made orally in the negotiations. The government can only blame itself if it cannot obtain the aid or if it may have to be repaid. The government's commitments include a strong increase in the number of teachers to 140,000 people. If this is not achieved as a result of the introduction of the status law and because of a steady increase in wages for all and the lack of a reduction in labour costs, the aid already taken back will have to be recovered. The introduction of the status law is not among the government's commitments. This was also warned by the Head of Unit of the Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion for Hungary at the inaugural meeting of the Committee to monitor the fulfilment of the commitments made to the Union. It is the responsibility of the Hungarian Government to impose a law that not only does not comply with its commitments to the European Union, but in no way serves to improve the situation of public education. However, this is what the government should be working on, and if this work were to finally get started, you would find that you will receive all professional assistance from trade unions and professional organisations. We have offered all political parties, but most of all those in power, to work through actual meaningful, professional and social consultation to develop a concept that serves the quality of public education tasks available to all, to stop mass exodus from the field, thus serving the interests of society as a whole. It cannot be achieved permanently by aggressive actions against demonstrators, including students, underage secondary school students, discriminating students, campaigning against trade unions. We will make it clear that violence is not supported by trade unions, but, after the peaceful demonstrations in recent years, all responsibility for the violence that has taken place in recent weeks lies with the government, since it has not taken into account the common demands of teachers, students and parents. There has been no dialogue on the increasingly urgent comprehensive reform of education! Bence Rétvári should not give the trade unions instructions, but should work on finally having meaningful discussions between the government and trade unions, as well as with independent professional organisations, in order for the government to comply with its commitments to the European Union, and by means of EU funds to start raising the wages of teachers regardless of the status law. National Election of the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers, National Leadership of the Teachers' Union. Budapest, 6 May 2023 Dear House, Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2023-05-08-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I expected you to have your own idea, Mr. Congressman, but even if we waited five minutes for this, we could not add such a thing. Péter Ungár's head of the group had his own idea, and he gave his opinion on these actions: it is a self-serving display, which has no other purpose than to get into the media. That's how he judged these actions that were taking place. But let's get back to the educator question. You know, in Hungary, in the last 30 years, there have not been as many discussions with teachers, teachers' unions, parents, teachers, interest representatives as in recent months. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: But did it work?]] We started this by asking teachers for their opinion on a number of very important issues in three rounds, some of which are also included in the current draft career law. In the first round, 25,000 teachers responded, then more than 30,000, 33,000, and then 18,000. We continued with parental consultation, in which 130,000 parents answered our questions. These were digital questionnaires. Last December, we also convened 400 heads of schools, where the principal and the school representative came, and we held a full-day consultation at the National University of Public Service. With the unions, the number of consultations is around nine, and on May 2nd it was the last. We held a consultation before we put out the bill for a social debate, how the process of consultation itself would take place, so we also consulted the teachers' unions on the consultation. Then, with the exception of Easter, almost every week the teachers' unions gave each other the doorknob. We convened the round table on the strategy for public education in relation to the directions for amendments, the National Council for Public Education met, we discussed with the National Student Council, the Secretary of State attended the meeting of the National Student Parliament. It can therefore be said that so many consultations have never taken place. You have arranged this with one sentence: there are no negotiations. That's what you said, honourable Member. The proposal was now made more than two months ago, on 2 March, and the proposal was first negotiated on 1 March. Well, that's the process you said there was no negotiation. You may also know that if you follow the news, of course, if you read only one part of the news, you did not realize that from 63 proposals submitted by trade unions as amendments to the bill not yet submitted to Parliament, about 45 were fully or partially adopted by the government, and 18 proposals are currently being discussed and discussed. The last points that trigger the biggest debate are, of course, the trade unions' own affairs: their own class discount, their own legal status, and this is what the debate with the trade unions is about for the longest time. The purpose of this amendment, honourable Member, is indeed to ensure that schools are as good as possible for Hungarian students. When the left was on the government, the schools were closed in 381 places, teachers were dismissed in bulk, 15,000 teachers were dismissed, and teachers' salaries were reduced, and teachers' education was awarded. [[11.10]] This is the package you're saying that makes the teacher's field attractive. The decline in your salary, the loss of your job, the closure of the school, the need to pay for the teacher training, can't be said to be attractive. This is what the left has offered. What trade unions have been doing or aren't doing over the past few years, I'm not going to qualify for it, I'm going to be qualified by the members themselves. There were 23,000 members of the largest pedagogical union not so long ago, a few years ago, 23,000 now 9,000. One trade union represents 6 percent of the members, 1.3 percent of the louder, 6 percent and 1.3 percent of the teachers, and more than 100,000 teachers are represented by the National Teachers' Faculty. [[Gergely Harvesto: It is mandatory!]] You know, I think that the fact that trade unions, the PS, have been abandoned by more than half of their members in recent years, that more than half of the members have returned their membership books, that more than half of the members have turned their backs on trade unions, that maybe it's because they don't feel the interest in them, but they feel that they're giving out party publications here with a trade union head, and that's why more than half of the members say they don't want it, they don't stay in it. This is why both known trade unions, the PS and PDS, are falling far below the representativeness threshold. Honourable Congressman, We'd like it to be a teacher's wage increase. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: When?]] And we ask you not to interfere. If it were up to us, all Hungarian teachers would have an average salary of HUF 561,000 from 1 January. Ferenc Gyurcsány, Csaba Molnár and you have admitted that your MEPs work in Brussels for HUF 6 million a month to prevent teachers from paying HUF 800 thousand from 2025. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so that Hungary does not receive the funds due to it, the funds due to Hungary. I call on you to stop this activity and finally allow the Hungarian teachers to get what they deserve! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-4	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the Dialogue Group, Mr Bence Tordai will take the floor before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Today, a lot of people in Hungary are thinking about what makes Fidesz power practitioners different from honest, well-meaning people, or we can ask the question in other ways: how does it follow directly from the nature of the regime that children are abused by karma in front of the Carmelite monastery. To do that, we need to look a little deeper. There are basically two models of politics. One is the normal policy that we greens represent in the Dialogue [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] It sets out a vision, sets its goals at local, national and supranational level, even at global level, and then tries to achieve and achieve these goals, overcome obstacles in its path and often overcome itself. By the way, Fidesz tried something similar before 2002, when they were supposedly working for civil Hungary, and that's what decent politicians do today. That's why it was completely self-identifying when this weekend the Dialogue-Greens team ran around Lake Balaton. Long-distance running is classic: we set a very serious goal, help each other along the road, and otherwise for charity [[Bence Rétvári: The first performance of the Dialogue in ten years!]] We've raised a lot of support for the Light Bringers Foundation. They can still be supported through parbeszed.hu. It's a normal model of politics, and it's the best parallel or analogy. The other is the fidesz model, which is about the constant struggle and not about ourselves, but about the defeat of the other. If we want to understand, on the one hand, we must turn to the personal nature of Viktor Orbán, who is legendary to bring another sport like that on the football field, primarily to victory and not to the fairplay game, but rather to the feet rather than the ball. Or, as we learned from one of his wife's interviews, when he was defeated by his wife at a ski-house contest, he changed the rules afterwards, became a separate category of men and women, so that he did not accidentally lose out of that completely insignificant little competition. We know that Viktor Orbán does not like to lose, he cannot lose. [[Bence Rétvári: It's okay for a politician.]] And he's gonna submit everything to victory, and he's gonna rewrite the rules, either on the go or after. That's what rewriting the election bill was all about, exactly from this pettyness. But there is also a political, philosophical foundation for this, which I personally had the pleasure of hearing from András Lánczi, one of your main ideologists, and he gave Carl Schmitt, a highly influential legal theoretical and political scientist who later became a Nazi, who said that the essence of politics is not to achieve goals, but to define us and theirs, to fight against the enemy, the ultimate form of which is war, where everything is permitted. [[Bence Rétvári: Says the pro-war representative.]] This Carl Schmitt model was taken over by Fidesz, Viktor Orbán Fidesz President and Carl Schmitt political philosophy together determine the policy of the regime. From now on, this extreme right-wing principle of friendship can be understood much better. It follows that our country is the strategic ally of Fidesz on the far right. [[Bence Rétvári: That's what you said to Jobbik!]] It follows that the extreme right-wing terrorist György Budaházy, who carried out terrorist attacks with Molotov cocktails and firearms in Hungary, was released, while an innocent man was imprisoned because he allegedly anti-fascist. Fidesz is supposed to be anti-fascist, and all decent European political forces must be after 45. [[Bence Rétvári: There is an anti-communist!]] Compared to that, you're anti-fascists, and you're fighting a non-existent movement with lies. It is also due to the fact that this weekend the European far-right held its grand event here with the title European Fight Night, again with fighting groups and far-rights, and Fidesz allowed it to do so, and did not use the powers of karma against them. [[An intervention from the ranks of our country.]] The guy you used the karma powers against is the students, the teenage kids who told you they shouldn't destroy public education. They received tear gas from this arm's power and tonwood, a baton. So, from this point on, you can understand the actual policy of Fidesz, the nature of the regime on the far right that explains the karma action against children. [[Bence Rétvári: You wink at the Jobbik!]] It is very important that all those who have so far supported Fidesz with their vote understand what the Fidesz regime's policy is about, what this continuous enemy search is about, what this . mi, and, what it is all about, so that there are no rules against students who are placed on the Fidesz side, if any, so that they feel that anything can be done against us decent Hungarian people. To do so, they will give their support and this support will have to be withdrawn from the regime. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the dialogue and the LMP.]]
u2023-05-08-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Deputy Minister of State, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-08-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond briefly to Mr President's broad speech, first of all to what we agree on. Running around Lake Balaton is a major achievement, no matter how many people the team was. I would like to congratulate you on this performance, no matter how long it takes to achieve it, this is a big deal in itself. I do not want to cynicalize the whole thing by saying that this is the first independent performance of the Dialogue, because when it comes to elections, they ask for the electoral list of others. As far as violence is concerned, whatever protests are concerned in Hungary, I think that two things should be clarified. The first is that everyone in this country is free to express their views, whether we agree with them or not. It wasn't always like that. It wasn't always like this. I am not talking about the period before the change of regime before 90, but I am thinking about the period when there were demonstrations in Hungary and peaceful protests, say, in 2006, and those who were then peacefully opinion-forming faced with the possibility of shooting at them. Many of the people sitting here attended a national commemoration, a demonstration, and faced the possibility of shooting their eyes out. We have a fellow Member who left the protest and commemoration with a bloody face. At the time, the answer was that the responsible ones were even decorated. If you were to say that you had nothing to do with this, let me remind you that with the same people responsible for this, you were on a joint electoral list. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] If you take account of the real leader of the left on one occasion of violence, then let us think that their action is credible. As far right as radical movements are concerned, I do not want to get into the support you are giving to the newly growing left-wing movements, because we could talk about this, but let's just talk about the extreme right. [[11.20]] We heard the same sentences a few years ago when we were talking about Jobbik. The same sentences. That extremes are dangerous, that you have to act against them. A little time has passed and what has happened: you have joined forces with them, honourable Member. And if you were to say that it was a completely different Jobbik, let me remind you that the President Jobbik, who is now president, spoke a few years ago about how to put our Jewish compatriots together, because they pose a national security risk, and also Israeli citizens pose a national security risk. This is not a former president, this is the current president of Jobbik. Where are the speeches, honourable Member? You've been protesting in rows here in Kossuth Square after these movements. Now it's cryptic silence. They were on the electoral list with them, and they don't have one sentence. So much for the credibility of these types of speeches. To the accusation, claim, opinion that the Hungarian Prime Minister would like to win: yes, I can confirm that. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán wishes to win and wants Hungary to be the winner of this period. It's not a secret. What we're seeing is that your political compass has something completely different. I appreciate that, but that doesn't make me like it. Now it is worth asking what winning or winning can mean in this period, either before the war or beyond the war. For example, it means stable economic growth. We have been able to show this in recent years, and our goal is to continue to do so, even during the war period. It means that families get all the support they can get. This is why family support systems have been expanded in recent years. It means that the oldest age group that has carried this country on its back for decades will receive support. That's why we rebuilt the 13th month's pension, the one you took. And that's why there's a pension premium and a pension supplement. It means that Hungarian property should be strengthened in Hungary, not prodigal privatisations, but that national property should be strengthened. Here too, we have achieved significant results, for example in the banking sector, in the construction sector, I could even mention retail trade, and we are also pleased that you do not agree with us that foreign ownership is not dominant in the Hungarian media either. But one more thing is this effort to end this war. Hungary can be the winner of the period ahead if we do not go into war, but into peace, and then back to a period of lasting growth. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-8	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Mr László Toroczkai, Head of the Group of the People's Republic of Hungary, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Even though I am preparing topics such as the problems of the water wing industry, Fidesz and Balliberal Globalist Foreign Agents always make sure that I have a reason to deviate from my planned speech. Bence Tordai is already on the run, but I must answer him in the spirit of democracy, although we know that he prefers to support anti-democratic far-left terrorist organisations, and therefore he is not in favour of democratic dialogue either. So you're going out, but I'm going to ask him the question, and I'm going to ask him the question: how can he ever talk about the integration of Gypsy or immigration, how good it is to open the borders, as long as he builds his house in Buda, in the gentleman's quarter, and not at the Hetes settlement in Oz? Until then, he's uncredited. Go there, build a CSOK there, and I don't know what kind of subsidies are irregular for your house or foreign support, not in the Buda gentleman's district, where only white people and Hungarians live, because it's a kind of reverse racism on your part. But I can only talk to his glass because he's gone out, and I'm guessing he's going to go out to some gentleman's quarter again instead of doing his job here and doing what he's getting paid for. And while we are at it, I will not, of course, abandon the workers in the water wing sector; I will also talk about the oligarchs near the government, and we will submit our proposals in writing. But it's like the government, the Fidesz, and I'm arguing very strongly with Bence of Tordai, so it's like the government is doing favors not to the far right, but specifically to the left, the Balliberal Globalist side, and playing with him. How can it be explained that those cordons are still not being removed from Carmelita? I'm not talking about the cordon that protects the construction site because we saw that it was damaged, but I'm not talking about that, I'm talking about the cordons next to it. I don't know. Fidesz doesn't notice that? That they're setting a stage for Ákos Hadházy and the momentary representatives with these cordons. Unless that is the purpose of Fidesz, and this is how it interacts with left-wing representatives, who, of course, did not come up with any sane, sane concept, unlike the Hungarian Movement, about the reform of education. This game, this circus, is fought in a fidesz and left-wing balliberal co-production. So what I see is that the Fidesz is playing right into the left hand. And if this Congressman, Bence of Torda, has just said that at the end of the week, during the last days of the last week, the government has done nothing about the so-called far-right event, then let me draw your attention to this congressman who is somewhere, I imagine, eating his caviar from his dollar, from the money sent by the Americans, so he is not in there to listen to me, let me tell him that, contrary to his lying claim, the government has not done anything, but has ordered hundreds of policemen to attend a private sports gala. Those people whose political views I don't know, I don't know who they were from Europe, but I do know that some of them were obviously arrested by the German authorities with secret service cooperation, operational means, and were detained so that they couldn't come to Hungary. What did they do to the terrorists on the far left who walk in and out of prison and regularly want to beat people to death? How could that German constitutional defense office, German authorities, let these far-left terrorists come here in the same way? As far as the Hungarian government, Fidesz, is concerned, not only did you miss this event, but you sent a completely unjustified 400 police officers there. The Fejér County Police Commissioner was also on the scene, while the government did not act against hardcore criminals, when we saw that even the Cozma assassins could be released afterwards, so that they could commit more crimes and then go back to prison. So exactly what we see is that the terrorists on the far left were free to terrorize, attack the Hungarians on the streets of Budapest for days, while the so-called extreme right which, once again, I do not want to deal with his views, I do not even know them at a closed sports gala, where they did not want to attack Hungarians, but they wanted to fight with each other, they could not keep them, because the police terrorized them by kicking off all kinds of legislation. So to say that the far right is supported by Fidesz... I see that the left is supported by Fidesz. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-08-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, responds to the speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, It is not my place to protect anyone on the other side for any reason, but allow me to quote a statement from the police before the weekend:. According to a citizen's announcement to the police, the European Fight Night fight will be held in Budapest on 6 May 2023, according to a poster published through social media at an unnamed site in Hungary. The militant Neo-Nazi Sports event, set up as a sporting event, is actually an extreme right-wing meeting that is expected to be attended by hundreds of radical sympathizers from the countries of Europe. Based on the events of previous European Fight Night events, there is reason to believe that Nazi ideology, open anti-Semitism, the emergence of racism is not limited to the event alone. Hungary has announced zero tolerance against these phenomena, which it also pursues with the tools of the law, in order to achieve significant results. In contrast to extreme manifestations, the police will act decisively, without contradiction, in proportion to the weight of the crime. In order to maintain balanced, non-extremist public order and public security, the police have taken the necessary measures and will take them in later days. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, And that was the case this weekend, honourable Member. Hungarian people want to live in peace and security, to live their daily lives normally, to thrive in peace and security. In the name of all kinds of violence, it may be called extreme right or far left, but it doesn't matter whether it is extreme right or extreme, the point is that, beyond radicalism, extreme perception and violent appearance is unacceptable to everyone, to all reasonable people. [[11.30]] Congressman Tordai attacked the police from the same direction, you attack from another direction, Mr Jámbor also from a third direction; what is close enough to Congressman Tordai attacked the police from that direction, even though the police are doing nothing but doing their job in Hungary. If Antifa criminals appear on the streets of Budapest and beat people in broad daylight with hoods, vipers and iron tubes and spray them with pepper spray, they will be tracked down, not only in Hungary, but also abroad. Indeed, we are now waiting in the procedure for substantial information from foreign co-governments, for such people have come from abroad; you may call them terrorists, provocators, many things, but unacceptable. We're the same in the case you mentioned. Do not come from abroad to create fear and alarm in Hungary! Many of our compatriots carry wounds from the period of the Holocaust and the era of communism, and both must be taken into account. The wounds of each period must not be reopened, but we must really help these people to live their daily lives. No neo-Nazi, extreme commemoration or event and, of course, far-left anti-fa event can be tolerated in Hungary. Neither! Nor when antifa-left radicals come from abroad and hit people on the streets of Hungary, nor when people representing similar extreme right-wing ideologies come. The police will take action against both to protect people's peace and security, and they will continue to do so. There is zero tolerance on this issue. There will be very strong police action in all such cases, honourable Member. And, you know, these are even extreme, small groups that mostly come from abroad. But the danger that I really see is that we see similar aggressive actions not in extremist small groups, but in the politicians bought with the dollar, which we have seen in the last few weeks: when politicians who are either marginalized or very prepared for the next election, and feel that they can become victims of the political cannibalism of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and therefore they want to show up somehow, so they are trying to use the police to attract media attention and spotlight. It's not the first time. We don't know it's his last, but it's not the first time. Here, in Kossuth Square, this happened when András Fekete-Győr threw a flue gas grenade at the police. This was the case when Márton Gulyás painted various public institutions, sprayed paint, spilled paint, glued. Such was the case now, perhaps László Varju from DK, for example, but we can remember László Varju and Ákos Hadházy most likely when they broke into the building of the public media, tried to abuse their representatives' licenses, and so they were forced to enter the center of the news, and this trend continues. It is dangerous because it is done by politicians who we know have been bought from abroad. Just as politicians in Brussels were bought from Qatar, politicians in Budapest were bought from Brussels. Don't use the police for this. Everyone demonstrate peacefully, hold peaceful sporting events, and do not show any extremes on the streets. The police are obliged to maintain order in any case. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-08-12	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Member Brenner Koloman of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. I'll wait for the line to settle behind him. Thank you very much. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Seventeen long years! Seventeen long years since the change of regime was the period in which Viktor Orbán and Fidesz governed. So when we talk about the fact that Hungary's citizens have been looking for one of the lowest wages in Europe since the change of regime, we can say that if possible, Fidesz, who has been governing for 17 years, should not point fingers at anyone else. In this they have the lion's share that we got there more than thirty years after the system change, when we all believed that a pay catch would take place, and we could all live in that prosperity and freedom. When this happened in 2004, our accession to the European Union, we still believed that there would be a pay gap, which, in our opinion, Hungarian citizens are the 21st. They deserve it in the first century and in the European Union. At the same time, we must say that the anti-national policy that was characteristic of virtually all governments during this period was based on cheap Hungarian labour force; cheap Hungarian labour force, which is well-trained compared to that. In the last 13 years, this economic model has been, like, peaked. What are the results of this sad economic policy? The result is that the wage cost of an average Hungarian worker is EUR 9.1, the EU average is EUR 23. Austria, yes, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, you know, that country I know a little better as a Poncichter citizen from Sopron, where you are supposed to send our country until 2030, is at EUR 29. Well, nice job. Go, go, go! But we have already missed the countries in the region, so Slovenia is already at around 20 euros, even though we all started from the same place in Central and Eastern Europe, and at that time our country was in a kind of better position, even compared with the regional states. Several hundred thousand Hungarian citizens signed Jobbik's EU wage initiative several years ago. The Fidesz government, led by Viktor Orbán, has ignored these hundreds of thousands of signatures and continued its cheap Hungarian labour-based policy, although they would have had the opportunity, in cooperation with the Visegrad countries, but other countries, such as the European South, to transpose a thoughtful, long-term ten-year wage harmonisation policy within the European Union. But, of course, you guys are more of a fake freedom fighter, and you're doing anti-Western Russian propaganda within the European Union. This was even supported by laws, so I can refer to the slave law, and in addition, they shamelessly narrowed down the right of Hungarian citizens to strike. That's what the educator society feels best about the last time. There is a good recipe for this, honourable Members. Our conservative political community has already repeatedly stated that if, in the public sphere, which is the biggest loser of the system change, there is a pay gap, which does have an economic background, my fellow Members, because I know that there is often a reason that this is an unrealistic request; no, dear fellow Members, when the economic development of our country is 75 per cent of the EU average, but at a purchasing power level it is only 63 per cent of the Hungarian gross wage, then you could very quickly calculate the economic background for wage catching up. What's missing? Well, it's your political will and your value choice. Well, I miss that one. In contrast to your anti-national policy, a truly right-wing and indeed national government would have caught up in a pay line immediately. In addition, we have now reached the point here with your anti-Western and anti-European policy that there is a danger that Viktor Orbán and Fidesz will leave the European Union. Well, there's just real insecurity and further downtime. This must be said against, because it is very important that Hungarian citizens can finally live in a normal Hungary. Responsible government, normal Hungary! Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-05-08-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister of State, will respond. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to clarify a few basic concepts at the beginning of my speech. Wages aren't basically decided by the government. The wages of the competition sphere are decided by the social dialogue forums. The system is such that employers and employees agree on the minimum wage, the government approves it and then announces it. For those working in the public sector, wages have been developed over the past two decades on the basis of continuous social dialogue, sometimes by resolving tough differences of opinion. [[11.40]] In recent years, I think you know this precisely, not only about annual wages, but also sometimes through multiannual wage agreements that would not only mean a livelihood but also a predictable future for the employee society. In what context did these negotiations take place? In the last year, Hungarian GDP has increased by 4.6 percent, thus, despite the war and sanctions, the economy has produced the sixth highest growth in the period after the regime change, making us the best performing upper third in the European Union. So your pejorative or pitiful view of the Hungarian economy is not confirmed by the figures. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I said that wages are low compared to performance.]] Despite the effects of the war, Hungary's investments increased, and the volume of investments reached a peak in 2022, nearly HUF 19 000 billion, and investments increased 3.5 times compared to 2010. Why do I think it's important to say this? After all the people who are sitting here on any side of this room, I'm sure we remember the percentage of unemployment reaching 13 percent in 2010, the February figure this year is 3.6-3.7 percent. So basically, our promise to create one million jobs in Hungary has been fulfilled. Today there are 4 million 707 thousand people working in Hungary, which is significantly more than in previous years, and Hungary has never had so low registered jobseekers. I say all this because, in this context, safety at work and existential security are sound economic foundations in Hungary. Since 2010, net average earnings have increased by 70 percent. In February 2023 the average gross earnings of full-time employees amounted to HUF 531 thousand, the average net earnings without discounts were HUF 353 thousand, both of which were nearly 1 percent higher than the previous year; so they showed a growing trend. In 2022, despite the crisis, real wages increased by 2.6 percent. From January 2023 the minimum wage rose to 232 thousand HUF, with a guaranteed minimum wage of 296 400 HUF. Thanks to the increase, the minimum wage is higher than the average wage in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era. [[Gergely Arató: Lower than in Romania.]] Industry's performance increased in 2022. Industrial production increased by 5.8 percent, construction production increased by 3 percent in 2022. In addition, Hungary is ranked first in the EU tax reduction ranking. In most Member States, the tax burden has been increased, and we have reduced it as much as possible. The numbers are generals and apply to the entire economy. As a result of left-wing governance, the economy stopped before 2008 and therefore in 2010 virtually a lost postwar [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We took over the country in a situation characterised by numbers, and today, in 2023, we are in a position that I tried to prove with the previous numbers. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-16	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. From the MSZP Group, Mr Zsolt Molnár applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I will talk about issues that have already become current, since these issues have become even more topical and I hope that I will fight as Sisyphos and will finally bang open gates, because Minister of State, Minister of State, has repeatedly said that we are talking about open gates when I ask about the support of Hungarian families. But first of all, I would ask the Hungarian government to put an end to the Horn offensive, with their hands off the memory of Gyula Horn! For this shameful action has been taking place for months now, and I ask you to leave this fight to the radicals, who will gladly do so, which is not worthy of you. I will not repeat the life course of Gyula Horn here, because everyone knows it, and I would draw attention to the fact that his funeral was a stand-up to his way of life, which was about his actions before the regime change, at the time of the regime change, and after that. In order to facilitate Mr. Secretary of State's reply, I will of course say that Gyula Horn was not on the right side in 56. However, as Winston Churchill is not judged to be a butcher of the Irish, as neither is slavery in connection with George Washington, in the case of József Antall Sr., he has not spent four years in Rákosi-parlament, and in connection with Endre Bajcsy-Zsilinszky, there is not only the spreading of the conservation theory in the history books, so I ask you to look at Gyula Horn in a complex way and to accept that this struggle has been lost. The Municipality of Budapest, the local government of the Angelland have made several decisions to accept this, which would be worthy of Gyula Horn's past. A fair-functioning government does not intervene in such a democratic procedure through the Government Office. The second current issue is: the beach season is coming up, the holiday season, and I would like to ask the government most specifically to extend the price caps, the official prices, to the paid beaches, to maximize the admission fee that can be requested from an adult citizen in 600 HUF. After all, the vacation of Hungarian families is now becoming most topical, and during such a brutal period of inflation it would be particularly important for these beach walkers to be affordable, especially in places where there are almost only paid beaches, the northern side of Lake Balaton is typical. I'll make it easy for you to answer. Of course, the municipalities are partly opposed to this, but our proposal contains compensation and compensation in the long term, of course, in a normative way, but now, it could be included in your regulation. And it is not a good answer that local governments can decide on this for themselves, because, in the case of official prices, neither flour, sugar, nor eggs were the shops asked whether they would like to take this measure, and the gas station attendants did not want the official price for fuel, so it is not the local governments that are interested here, but the Hungarian families who will not be able to pay the admission fee in Balatonfüred, for example. The answer to this is that there are many free beaches, because, yes, there are free beaches, but the right thing to do is to separate Hungarian families who want to bathe next to Lake Balaton from going into this wonderful lake owned by everyone for free. Therefore, I urge you to take immediate action, since this season is coming. Now is the time to show that they are really on the side of Hungarian families, or they are just lying about it, and they always give the same answers that there are free beaches, that resources cannot be taken away from the municipalities. We do not want to divert resources from the municipalities, we were friends of the municipalities, we are and we will be. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] However, the answer to this question cannot be accepted: the municipalities can decide for themselves, since, I repeat, stores and shops could not decide on the question of how much flour, sugar and eggs are given for, and so did petrol stations. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to take action, to make it easier for the Hungarian families to reach the shore of the Hungarian sea, Lake Venice, to pay for the tickets, and to make sure that the unworthy campaign they are conducting against Gyula Horn is stopped, to accept democratic decision-making. Thank you for listening. [[Zoltán Vajda applauds.]]
u2023-05-08-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given on behalf of the Government by Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[11.50]]
u2023-05-08-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Member has put two issues which are not fully interrelated to each other on the agenda. As for Gyula Horn's question. I don't think it's our role to advise you as a successor party, I mean, you're the successor party on how to cherish the memory of Gyula Horn. We talked about this in more detail. I propose that the consideration be given to the fact that before such a decision is taken, before deciding on a street name for a person with a conflicting view, citizens should be consulted. Because be sure that you will meet voices who say that after what you have suffered during communism because of the activities of such leaders, there is a great deal to be done, but not street names; and the Hungarian laws are also clear in this respect. So when the government office had certain requests, it was not formulated on the basis of a political opinion, on the basis of a personal opinion, but on the basis of Hungarian laws, so I suggest that you take this into account; and if you have the opportunity, the desire, the energy, then ask for the opinion of the citizens. There are hundreds of thousands, millions of people in this country who view decades of communism not as some kind of positive, but as decades that have crippled them in an economic sense or not in a physical sense; and they simply do not want to take this into account. If you were to say that it wasn't Gyula Horn, I would draw attention to the fact that Gyula Horn was not a rapporteur in the communist decades, but was in extremely high positions. It is very remarkable that in other cases they are proud of his leadership performance under communism elsewhere. How's that? So now they're trying to bludgeon his involvement, and other times they refer to him as an example. As regards the question of beaches, the question of beaches that are not directly related to it. I told you the other day that if we look at the number of free beaches between the beaches in Balaton, we can tell you that there are 107 public beaches, and that if we look at the length of the beach, almost two thirds of the beaches are free beaches. I would also talk you out of the fact that once again there will be airlifting advertisements over free beaches, where they demand free beaches, because Hungarians on free beaches will take this extremely strangely. Think about it. Think about it. More importantly, however, the government provides support in all possible ways to ensure that these beaches are of extremely high quality. At the first stage 209 Balaton projects received nearly HUF 9 billion; 42 free beaches of 18 Balaton coastal settlements were renewed from HUF 4.5 billion in support. This included improving the conditions for access to water, building green surfaces, improving transport infrastructure, and a number of others. At the fifth stage, therefore, there were many beats in 25 settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton, 55 projects received HUF 1.6 billion. So the government's working on it. At the same time, it is a gift which of the beaches has municipal ownership and which is free beach. The evolution of Lake Balaton's ownership, so what is private, municipal or state-owned, was not developed in this government cycle. So the major privatisations took place long before the current governance. All the government can do is provide support for public beaches and help municipalities to provide the best possible service. If you want the municipalities to give up land or income, then I ask you to carry out the necessary consultations with the municipalities, and then we look forward to the outcome of this. As for developments in Balaton, we can not only report beach development: we also want to improve shipping, the fleet of BAHART is renewed, new ships are also coming, and we would also like to develop ports. All of this is driven by one goal: not only do we reach the record level before 2019 in domestic tourism, but, if possible, we are going to exceed it. If, despite our many debates, we agree on this one goal, then this dialogue is finally worth it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-08-20	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! The speaker before the agenda of the Momentum Group is Mr Ferenc Gelencsér Group leader. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The government's budget deficit target for 2023 is 3.9 percent of the total Hungarian GDP. That's a lot of money. That's how much the Hungarian government goes beyond its potential. He spends that much more money than he can afford. It's nothing but irresponsible. With such fiscal indiscipline, it is understandable how Prime Minister can save virtually zero after 33 years of parliamentary representation; you are throwing money away. As they do in private life, they treat national wealth just as irresponsiblely. By the end of March, the central subsystem of public finances closed with a deficit of HUF 2089,7 billion. By the end of March, you reached 61.5 percent of the total annual deficit target in 13 weeks. 13 weeks is less than 100 days. A year is 52 weeks. How do you plan to solve this? The budget also accounts for more than HUF 2000 billion of EU revenue, the EU's revenue that they cannot bring home, despite Minister Navracsics' statement every two weeks that the agreement is already in the turn, the money taps will open in just a few weeks. On 18 May 2022, the press wrote that Minister Navracsics is calm, because he has great experience in the EU, so he is confident that the EU funds for Hungarians will arrive in no time. Two months later, on 18 July 2022, the government mouthpiece Origo wrote that the agreement on EU money was extremely close. It is May 2023; EU funds are not at home. They may not be, because the EU has had enough that you are not spending it on our country, but is stealing it. May I remind you of Pope Francis' ten-day-old warnings: "The good shepherd is neither a thief nor a thief, or he does not abuse his role. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In recent years, interest rates have been low, and we have seen that the government is trying to outgrow the budget deficit, so to speak, by increasing GDP. This was a meaningful process in the global economy, which marked the world between 2010 and 2020. Unfortunately, this is over! This is not your fault, but it is certainly not your fault that you are not prepared for the fact that the global economic recovery will not last forever. The drop in the KSH in the store traffic was the same as when everything stopped at the beginning of the epidemic. People are consuming less and less, and the economy is slowing down even further. So there is a dangerously underestimated deficit target of 3400 billion, to which is added 2,000 billion forints of money that seems more and more fictitious. This is what he realizes, according to several analysts, this year's GDP growth will be around 0.3 percent, which means at least a quarter of a year of technical recession. Therefore, the previous public deficit management technique is no longer available. And then we didn't talk about interest expenditure and the fact that, while the government deficit in previous years is caused by a one-off, large-scale expenditure, this year is due to systemic reasons. It's a serious equation, the equation of your bad governance, the Fidesz margin. Somewhere someone's been very seriously calculating themselves, and we're going to have to bear the consequences. Name one responsible. György Matolcsy, President of the Central Bank, points out to the Minister for Economic Development, Márton Nagy, the Minister for Economic Development, the President of the Central Bank, while there are rumors that Minister for Finance Mihály Varga would replace György Matolcsy at the head of the Central Bank. Please settle your ranks, because this is not a board game. You are the Government of Hungary. Don't deal with ideological disputes, don't fight imaginary enemy images, just deal with the crisis. Because gendering and serialization may be the right kind of spiritual food for you, but food won't be cheaper. The solution, which is imposed on the competition sector, is not the public prices quoting communism, but good governance, the most important of which is the establishment of a responsible budget. I'll help you: it's not a responsible budget that's written for friends and themselves. Not even if they were overspending 2,000 billion in March. I ask you to agree with the EU, just as you have begun to agree with NATO on Ukraine. They don't want to be sticks between the spokes, they want to become what drives the wheel, because this wheel drives us all forward, no matter what we think of the world, no matter where we vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties. Bence Rétvári interrupts.]]
u2023-05-08-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The reply to Mr Fraction Manager's speech before the agenda will be given by Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go. [[12.00]]
u2023-05-08-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Well, I think your party hasn't had much trouble with budget planning so far, but especially with budget implementation, but most importantly with taking responsibility for it. Therefore, I am a little surprised that he is so competent in his attempt to criticize Hungary's budgetary practice, budgetary system and budgetary management in front of the public. I can tell you that in 2010, when the change of government took place, Hungary's economy was in a very serious situation, Hungary's budget, the situation of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian families at all. However, over the past ten years, the government has demonstrated that this can be done in a cost-effective manner, and that it can be done in a responsible manner. Why do I say that? Between 1998 and 2002, the government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased from 60.5 per cent to 55 per cent. At this point, your values were not governed. Then, when your allies took over, the government debt reached 80 percent. This was to be stopped by the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government from 2010, and then started to reduce it. The government has done so. However, the current government is also able to produce very serious results in terms of investment, as we are one of the European Union's top riders in this respect. This means that economic policy has been developed that foreign capital, market capital, is coming to Hungary and is implementing its developments in Hungary, creating jobs and increasing GDP. Of course, this is not easy to come by: low taxes, disciplined budget management despite your criticism, support for job-creating investments, encourage businesses to have performance and thus to give people jobs. It is a very important issue that you have raised with regard to EU funds. You are acting here on the left as if you had nothing to do with what DK, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow parties said, that you consider it a patriotic obligation not to have EU funds in Hungary. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! There's a riot in DK's benches. The president's ringing the bell. Eszter Vitalos: You gave the interview! What are you saying? Yes, you can.]] You're acting like you're not in a fraternity, and you obviously disagree. Do you agree with him or do you disagree? Say something. He agrees with Ferenc Gyurcsány that the aim is to destroy Hungary; no matter how many families get into poverty, no matter how many businesses get ruined; no matter how much interest spending on the budget increases due to external financing, and therefore there is no money for either health or education, only one thing that matters is that they gain power. Because that's your philosophy, that's your idea, and that's why they do everything. Honourable Congressman, In just a few more seconds, I would like to talk about one thing; that is the level of employment. It is very important that when we started to govern in 2010, there were a million fewer people working, and there were workers in Hungary. Now imagine how much personal income tax, contributions, employer and employee contributions have since been paid to the state budget, thus improving the balance of the budget. I can assure you that the Hungarian Government has already pursued and will continue to pursue a responsible fiscal policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-08-24	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! The vice-president, Mr Gergely Arató, has applied from the DK Group to speak before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-25	Thank you. Dear House, If a country is entrusted to the police ministry to manage education, sooner or later, the baton, tear gas and handcuffs will become a tool for educating students. That's exactly what happened on May 3rd at the Carmelite monastery. [[Bence Rétvári:...?]] When a repressive power loses all sense of reality and control, violence remains its last refuge. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes. Noise in the benches of Fidesz. Dr. Répássy Róbert: Look who's talking.]] Looks like that's what just happened to the Orbán system. Rushing inflation in Orbán, the impairment of pensions and wages, the decline in economic growth, the destruction of education and health have shown that Fidesz is unable to control the country. They can't steer, they refuse to talk, they stay with the baton and tear gas. This reaction could also be remembered by my older fellow Members from the 1980s, unless there were exactly KIS or party secretaries at the time. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Eszter Vitalos: We remember it from 2006.]] Even though the government media is lying, the students didn't attack the police, they didn't endanger anyone's life and safety. (Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz. Bence Rétvári: Ah, no! The drone footage will show you! Eszter Vitalos: Ah, no! They simply exercised their freedom of speech, protesting peacefully, so as not to destroy education. They stood up to avoid driving their teachers away, to make it impossible for them to learn. [[Eszter Battalion intervenes several times.]] You remember that you took away the real strike from the teachers, the possibility of a real strike. Here's the consequence: the students came to the house with their demands. They didn't get an answer, no dialogue, only tear gas, batons and handcuffs. What has happened is unacceptable from a professional, civil and human point of view. It is unacceptable from a professional point of view, because it is quite clear that the police's action against this demonstration was neither necessary nor proportionate. It is unacceptable from a political point of view, because violence cannot be an answer to peaceful protests. [[Robert Répássy: We agree with that!]] And it is unacceptable primarily from a human point of view; because if students are beaten or beaten by the police because they give their opinion, it tells us everything about you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's the moral Mariana trench, that's as far down as it goes. I would like to say this quickly: the word "child protection" should not be put on your mouth again, because we do not want child protection tear gas! The country has a right to know who's responsible for what happened. [[Constant noise in the pro-government benches. Eszter Vítalos: Damn, you're weak!]] We want to know who ordered the police to use violence, who is responsible for the use of violent means, and this responsibility is not the responsibility of the police who executed the order, but the responsibility of the politicians who issued the orders, and, ultimately, of Viktor Orbán. [[Attila Móring József: Gyurcsány! Noise. Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] To find out this, we are initiating a comprehensive investigation, so we have presented a proposal for a resolution to Parliament. This case cannot be without consequences, because if you can beat peacefully protesting students without consequences, you can do anything with anyone! I suspect that instead of a meaningful response, the appointed Secretary of State will reply that 2006. I ask that, after physical violence, protesting students should not be humiliated verbally, nor should they draw parallels between the protesters that are now at hand and the violent protesters of the 2006 demonstrations. The students didn't burn down the TV station, and they didn't steal the Fucking Rudi. They didn't attack and hurt hundreds of cops. They weren't armed with stone pieces, spears, knives, hammers, iron balls and Molotov cocktails, and they didn't even have a T34 truck. These young people didn't send bombs, and they didn't fire at the houses of pro-government politicians, and according to the Orbán government, that's an apology. No, nothing like that happened. There was no violent mob here with peaceful protestors. All the students did was try to give their opinion on their own lives in the Castle, under the King's window. And they took down a piece of fence. This fence break-up is what Fidesz said in 2007 that democracy and civil disobedience. Let us add that in the Republic of Hungary, where even the opposition is entitled to fair justice, the court also agreed with them. [[12.10]] What is happening in the Castle is a clear proof that you have lost control of Hungary, you have lost control of the Hungarian economy, you have lost control of the social crisis, you have lost control of the environmental crisis and you have lost control of education. As long as Orbán stays, the price increases remain, the economic, environmental and social crisis remains, and there will be a storm in education. But there is hope because there is a shadow government that offers an alternative [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] and which can show you how to run this country differently and peacefully. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-08-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. In response to Mr President's speech before the agenda, we will hear the answer from Deputy Minister, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-08-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Tonight's graduations begin, 111,000 students begin the biggest test of their lives. We wish them good luck. But at this moment, when graduations started well, let us think back on what you have done about graduation this year, honourable Member: Hungarian teachers were encouraged to fail graduation, not to apply for graduation, to put the future of Hungarian students in jeopardy. But it is also visible today, when graduations started, as always, that you represent a very small part of the Hungarian teachers, because they were called upon to stand in line for war. [[Gergely Harvestó: We didn't do anything like that! The president's ringing the bell.]] "Boycotting and stopping graduation, "you and your satellite organizations were saying, "see if you could stop your graduation with such a boycott. But it didn't work, because nearly twice as many teachers signed up to graduate as it would otherwise be necessary to graduate. So, fortunately, your voice has not been heard until the teachers, and today is proof of that. Thank you very much to the Hungarian teachers for being sober, for considering the interest of students important and not the political interests of the left, and the graduation started. And we wish the students good luck. You had a request for a quote from 2006, Congressman. Well, I quote from 2006, not in connection with the Kossuth Square protests, but in connection with the protests on Szalay Street, when students, parents, teachers protested against mass school closures and mass educational gadgets. The quote from 2006:. The demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and the wallet is not dissuaded by the original intention of the demonstration. Who said that? You, Gergely Arató, honourable Member. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Laszlo Szászfalvi: Oops!]] After about ten rounds of discussion between the teachers' union, we convened the round table for public education, the National Council for Public Education. [[Interview from DK's ranks: It wasn't effective!]] We had three digital consultations with the teachers, we had 130,000 participants in a digital parental consultation, and we invited 400 school principals and school leaders to discuss last December, and 45 of the 63 controversial points were accepted by the trade unions in whole or in part, only 18 have further debates, but you said then that the demonstration does not discourage you from the original intentions of not allowing a millimeter to change a paragraph, however many people can go to Szalay Street. Then there peacefully, because your building was not threatened by anything at that time, honourable Member, no one aggressively attacked the building, went there and said that they did not agree with dismissal, wage reduction and school closure. Then that's what happened, honourable Member. Well, then you said no matter how big a crowd, no matter how many protesters, you wouldn't allow an inch. Compared to this, we have been doing nothing since 2 March; we have only agreed, agreed, agreed on a proposal; the previous negotiations started last year. You know, honourable Member, because there are no crowds behind you, they want to make up for the lack of mass with volume, aggression and violence. This is not a new method, and it is not even a Hungarian method, it has a speciality, primarily in America, but also elsewhere: the Alinsky method, the Popovic method, it is called by many names. What's the point? Number one: violence, violence. Second point: provocation, provocation must be given to those who fulfil their obligations, in which case the police. Part three: Sacrifice pose, stand up in Parliament the next day and say with tears what has happened here in the last few days. This is what's left for you: violence, destruction and obscenity, because they're trying to turn up loud instead of crowds. It's a big race, we can see it. In a year's time, one of you will be on your feet. They announced a competition. In the elections to the European Parliament, we will find out who is above 5 percent, who is below 5 percent, what is the DK-Momentum ratio. [[Gergely Harvest, the KDNP... the president's ringing.]] You guys have a big competition in this. Plus, there's another billion coming from America, from abroad, from several places. There's also a competition for sponsorship: who's gonna get more money? Who's got more than one dollar coming in? And to do that, you will use anyone and anything, even children, teachers. But you've already referred to everyone. When they did the same in Kossuth Square here in the Chamber, they referred to the workers. [[Gergely Arató: We also represent them.]] When they did the same thing on Kunigunda Street, violence, aggression, provocation and sacrificial position, you and your fellow factions were on the ground and on the rails or walking around the headquarters, they did the same thing, and they referred to freedom of the press. It doesn't matter, you always refer to all kinds of things, but the only thing that matters is getting power. And for that, nothing is precious to you. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Even such planned aggressive actions are advertised so that they can make themselves look like victims the next day. If you're wondering what happened, you're on YouTube, look at the drone footage, honourable Member, everyone with eyes can see who was aggressive and who was acting legally. [[Gergely Harvesto: Then, you will have an examination, because there is nothing to be afraid of.]] But it does not dissuade us, honourable Member, that, in contrast to you reducing the salary of teachers, we will increase by 75 percent as soon as the boycott, with which you will also try to hold back the Hungarian EU funds, which we intend to raise the teacher's wages. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Eszter Vitalos: Well done!]]
u2023-05-08-28	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Zsolt Semjén, from the KDNP Group, will take the floor before the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, László Varga, the Christian Democrat sub specie aeternitatis, is indeed a great witness of great times. Let me tell you a personal story. He sat near me in these parliamentary seats and talked to an old fellow warrior. He hit my ear with the following phrase:. I remember, John, on the leather cockpit of the German planes of war. I told him Messerschmitt and Junkers were made of metal and glass. He glanced at me, and the two old men looked at each other, and said only: Zsolti, during World War I. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] He was born in 1910. He told me that when he was six, he saw IV. The coronation of our King Charles at the Matthias Church and the entrance of Miklós Horthy at the Gellért Hotel at the age of nine. Perhaps these experiences triggered his historical interest, as his teacher, Antal Szerb, encouraged the literature. These two areas certainly motivated his political consciousness, the scene of which was the Association of Christian Workers' Young People in Józsefváros. His name relative László Varga, the Jesuit, introduced him to the papal social encyclicals and directed him to the Church Community Workers' Department and then to the Organization. He came into contact with the Christian Democratic People's Party in the autumn of 1944. The foundation of the party is an intellectual and political history of the Catholic Social People's Movement, with the encouragement of Bishop Vilmos Apor, joining the National Front, which is a resistance to German occupation and Arrowmen, where they collaborated with the illegitimate leaders of the Social Democratic Party and the Little Owners Party. In the late afternoon of November 30, 1944, the Christian Democratic People's Party was formed at László Varga's apartment on Galamb Street. On December 4, 1944, he and several Christian Democrats and Christian socialist leaders were arrested in the crosshairs of the Sagittarius Court, accusing them of anti-German conspiracy and Jewish rescue. In the Margit boulevard, they miraculously avoided the parole hearing of the impromptu court, which would have been synonymous with execution. They were released from captivity with a change in the political situation. On 13 February 1945 the Jesuits held the party's inaugural meeting in Budapest in the Order of Mária Street. Since the license was granted only a few weeks before the legislative elections, they could join the government of the capital, together with Sándor Eckhardt, on the list of the FKGP but on behalf of the Democratic People's Party. In 1947, under the leadership of István Barankovics, the Christian Democrats won the parliamentary election, which the Communists cheated with the infamous blue tag method. László Varga, as a Member of Parliament, has now fought hard against the Communist dictatorship, so he was now persecuted by the Owl. At the last minute before the arrest, he escaped with his wife to Austria in hiding on a corn cob. Graz went from Zurich to New York. Here he immediately joined the work of the Hungarian National Committee, the top organization of Hungarian migration. [[12.20]] He is the founder of the General Assembly of the European Union of Slave Nation, representing several delegations to the Foreign Affairs Committees of both houses of the US legislature. In America, he is a supporter of President Ronald Reagan's policy, who was a supporter of the emigrant representatives of the peoples under Soviet occupation. On 29 September 1989, 41 years after his forced escape, he returned home and joined the organization of the Christian Democratic People's Party. He played a decisive role in becoming a member of the coalition government of József KDNP Antall. In 1994, he was elected a Christian Democrat MP. As interim president, he opened the first meeting of the newly elected legislation, as in 1998 and 2002. He was in charge of the reorganization of KDNP after the insurrections. On 25 March 2003, László Varga was elected president of KDNP. He was a student when he was 90, and he had to be called my brother Laci, who said Uncle Laci, and he had to bring a bottle of red wine. The wise words of his rich life experience have become a hospice. For example, he often said that those who give up fundamental principles in politics are morally unfit, and those who cannot compromise are professionally unfit. On 16 May 2003, KDNP was 93 years old when KDNP XVII. its district organisation held a residential forum. Despite the high age of the questions asked, he always answered standing up from the chair while the audience applauded him. After many of these occasions, he fell off the stage, passed out, and the next day he died in the hospital. László Varga symbolizes the historical continuity of the Hungarian Christian-Christian-Christian Democratic movement, which started here from the Christian socialism of Sándor Giesswein, includes the success of the mass-scale organization of the KALOT of Padre Kerkai, and connects with the post-war Christian Democratic parties through the Christian democracy of István Barankovics. On this basis, it can be said that the Christian democracy of Hungary and the world has come together in person. Uncle Laci, you're already in the celestial faction. You helped us down here, now help us from upstairs. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-08-30	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Soltész, State Secretary, spoke before the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. President. Congressman László Varga, our brother Laci, was a great witness of great times, with all capitals: THE GREAT WITNESS. He witnessed that stormy XX. to a century that was beautiful and noble, but often or most often sad and shameful. As a child, he experienced the horrors of World War I and the trauma of the Trianon peace dictatorship. He experienced the social problems and economic difficulties between the two world wars. He experienced and suffered the devastation of World War II, Nazi ideology, German occupation, Sagittarius terror, and also suffered the so-called democratic times, the fraudulent elections, the Soviet occupation, the communist dictatorship. He then accompanied and lived through the four-and-a-half-decade communist period and the organization of the four-decade emigration. Finally, he was actively involved in the new truly democratic period of the regime change. He was a great witness to this period, but he is not only a witness, but also an active part of and shaper of nearly seven decades of Hungarian history. As a Christian believer, he served social justice based on the papal social encyclical. In addition to our oppressed, abused, humiliated Jewish compatriots, he bravely took the stand, and as a result, he was indeed arrested, and the threatening terror of the prison and execution was there in his life. And as a Christian, he also stood up against the building communist dictatorship, taking action in the Christian Democratic Party led by István Barankovics against the process that unfortunately defined our history, our country, for more than four decades. He was forced to flee because of and against the persecution of the ÁVH. He fought against the Communist dictatorship in a struggle that seemed hopeless among people who had lost hope: he fed hope, fed and strengthened anti-communism in every forum for four decades. In the last, nearly a decade and a half, it's remarkable! At the age of 79, KDNP began reorganizing, helping young politicians, serving the country and nation. Dear Parliament, Our fellow Member, László Varga, respected and loved his strong survival, stand, diplomatic sense, sense of humor and intelligence, and he can only learn from his life. In today's struggle, whether for families or for the nation or for Christianity, perhaps for the most important thing, for peace, his life will only strengthen us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the Fidesz Group, Mr János Halász applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The war has been going on in Ukraine for 15 months now. In our eastern neighbor, there are bloody battles in these moments, the fronts are stiff. The number of pointless victims is expected to continue to increase, as the opposing parties are preparing for the biggest battle so far. Dear House, The position of the Hungarian government and the Fidesz faction has been clear and clear since the first day of the outbreak of the war: we are on the side of peace, Hungary is still not carrying weapons, we are not taking part in the ammunition transport operation, and we are strongly asking everyone to focus on peace negotiations instead of arms shipments, because the longer this war takes, the greater the risk of escalation. 39 countries have already decided to deliver lethal devices to the battlefield, so this is no longer a local conflict. Finally, if NATO itself were to be directly involved in this conflict, it would be a threat to the outbreak of World War III. It is also important to note that Western reflection on victory or defeat is actually a false dilemma of war, because the war in Ukraine has no and no winners. We Hungarians have already paid a very high price for this war: many Hungarians living in Transcarpathia and enlisted in the Ukrainian army have already died, cemeteries are full, sanctions are imposed on energy prices and food prices. Many people want peace in Europe, but the current Brussels policy leaves no room for peace, and the whole liberal media is virtually pro-war in concerts, even though only through dialogue and diplomatic efforts can peace and avoid the emergence of the Cold War or further armed conflicts. Unfortunately, according to the recent resolution of the European Parliament, there is no evidence of this endeavour, but nevertheless Hungary still wants to strengthen the pro-peace voice in Brussels. We will do everything we can to ensure that there is a ceasefire and peace talks as soon as possible, because otherwise there is no way to save the lives of many tens or hundreds of thousands of people. Pope Francis' visit to Budapest showed that we are not alone in this struggle. The Vatican is determined to mobilize its power, connections, influence, to try to stop the bloodshed. The pope urged the congregators to try to be like Jesus: open gates, gates that are not fooled by anyone, on which everyone can enter, and to experience the beauty of the Lord's love and forgiveness. The purpose of the Holy Father is to pour the desire into the hearts of the leaders of men and peoples, to build peace, to provide the future of hope for future generations, not war, a future full of cradles and not graves, a world full of brothers and not walls. All the speeches by Pope Francis expressed a desire for peace, and all of this was in line with the Hungarian government's position despite the malicious attempts of the international press. [[12.30]] Hungary is interested in a successful, successful Ukraine, and because of the Hungarians living there, it is even more motivated to have peace in our neighbourhood. We have already done everything we can to help Ukrainian people in this war. We are carrying out the biggest humanitarian action in the country's history, and we have taken in over a million refugees. We provide free health care and educational opportunities, more than 1300 schools and kindergartens in Hungary hire Ukrainian children and students. We'll help you any way we can, but we're still not sending weapons or soldiers. Dear House, It is amazing and outrageous that the Hungarian left is still pro-war, the dollar left has made it clear several times since the outbreak of the war that he would send weapons or even soldiers into the war. If it were on the left, Hungary would have been dragged into this war a long time ago. The Fidesz faction, on the other hand, fully supports the government in its fight against the outbreak of the world war, in preserving the peace and security of the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-08-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, there is still no sign of relief in the war, and we still see more and more countries offering lethal military weapons and sending them to the battlefield. Nearly 40 countries did so, and nearly 20 of them offered tanks, which will arrive in the foreseeable future. However, the fights will not be quiet if we watch the news, and on the contrary. This also means that there will be increasing pressure on us to get involved in this war, and this pressure will come in different ways, one of which is to hold back EU money. Last week we arrived at another act of the debate on EU money. This debate is about the rule of law, the state of democracy in Hungary, according to the deterrents of money, but more and more people are telling themselves what the real reason is. Now one of the main responsible people in Brussels has made a meaningful statement. According to Green Representative Daniel Freund, if we do not change our position on war, migration and child protection, then there is no money and it is done. So it's not really the rule of law, it's not justice, it's not education regulation, it's not property declarations, it's ideological issues, it's war and it's peace. Moreover, they are trying to pressure us on matters where the EU does not have any powers, but they are trying to force their approach on us. And the most serious thing is not that Brussels takes action and abuses its power, but that we have finally got used to it; the most serious thing is that the Hungarian left gives not only tacit but also active support to this. What do you call the Shadow Government? I quote: They were there when they raised conditions against Hungary that they thought could not be met. And that it was their patriotic duty to say so too. I'll be damned. Now we get it. In the autumn, 17 laws were amended, as suggested, last week in this House we amended the law on justice, and education regulation is changed, even though the EU does not have the power to do so. The fifth time! we have also changed the systems of declaration of assets, but this is absurd in itself, yet there is no indication that EU funds would be paid. It's not a rule of law procedure, it's pure pressure and violent political blackmail. [[Ancient Novak: You can quit!]] (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Let me make one thing clear: if the rule of law matters, they cannot override the powers. If the rule of law matters, they can't act in cases where they don't have jurisdiction. If democracy matters, they cannot override the clear results of the election, the Hungarian election. And most importantly, if the Hungarians' opinion matters, they cannot involve them in a war that is not their fault and in which they do not want to participate. We ask for more respect for the Hungarians' will and our pro-peace position. Let us send this message to Brussels and send a message to the left-wing parties who were unable to obtain a majority in the election, but are now working against the country and are hoping for some political advantage. So, we ask for more respect, and we ask left-wing Members to consider whether they took an oath to do so when they started their work. Hardly. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-08-36	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State. I salute my fellow Members. I declare that we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I now ask Mr Vinnai, Mr Vice-President, to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2023-05-08-37	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Péter Jakab, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; János Bencze, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Andrea Hegedüs, DK, Judit Ráczné Földi, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank; Miklós Hajnal, Momentum; Norbert Erdős, Fidesz; Illés Boglarka, Fidesz.
u2023-05-08-38	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, in the 10th second of 12:36, we will begin the discussion of the questions. Congressman Zoltán Komáromi, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: "For how long? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Komáromi has the floor.
u2023-05-08-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Did you get your recently increased salary by HUF 700,000 every month? I'm guessing you've got it, so you don't know how the Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital and the employees of the Honvéd Hospital feel, but they don't. While your salary increased by HUF 700,000, the employees of these hospitals did not even receive the salary they would otherwise have received. You changed the rules of payments just before Easter, which in reality meant that at the beginning of April the hospital workers brought home between 100 and 200 thousand forints less. On the one hand, you are constantly increasing prices with inflation in Orbán, which is why all food costs double, and on the other hand you are not paying hospital workers. They do not pay the hospital's supplier's bills, they currently owe more than HUF 56 billion. We live badly because of Orbán, because you raise prices, you don't pay wages, and it should have been the other way around. Dear Secretary of State, Several colleagues in DK have asked the government when these people will finally get their salary. We didn't get a meaningful answer, and the medical staff didn't get their money, not even last week. I would like to remind you that if we have a problem, we need urgent health care, then these are the people that are responsible for our lives, then nothing is as important as being there for hospital workers and doing their job as best they can. Yet, the government was more important to Viktor Orbán and your salary increase than people's lives. That is why we say that today the shadow government is the only hope for Hungarians to obtain decent European care. I have one question, Mr. Secretary: how long will the hospital staff's salaries be held back, when will it finally be in order at the Honvéd Hospital and Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital? Thank you.
u2023-05-08-40	Thank you, Congressman Komáromi. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-08-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We remember the left-wing administration, then it was a pay cut, all nurses and all doctors had to cut their salaries, and patients had to pay a visit fee. Compared to this, if you look at the basic salary of doctors in 2010, who then earned, say, HUF 129 500 as a career beginner, the basic salary is now 687,000. Whoever was at the end of his career worked 40 years ago, he earned 262,000 forints in 2010, now it is 2 million 380,000 forints. And if we look at a nurse, they earned 160,000 forints as a career beginner, now 517 forints, and someone earned 220 thousand forints as a basic wage in 2010 with 20 years of training and higher education, and now 690 thousand forints. [[12.40]] So much for honor and wage increases. For you, I stress, all you could afford was a wage cut during your own governance. As far as the two hospitals are concerned, Honvéd Hospital: as you know, as of 1 January, the Honvéd Hospital split in two, became a general hospital and a special military hospital. Here, problems and changes have also occurred in labour systems when converting databases. They have been kept informed of the form in which their problems are dealt with and where workers can turn. This is a primarily wage accounting and software problem arising from the split-up of the institution. The reason for the findings was examined and corrected by the labour specialists, and in the next accounting period everyone was paid there at the usual time. So much for the Honvéd Hospital, yes, but it's an IT accounting error. Bajcsy Hospital: from 1 March, the Director General decided on a change in the clearance of mobile charges. Until 28 February, this month's agreement has been settled, and from 1 March the actual amount will be settled ex post. This change of 1 March was published on the 3rd day of February, one month in advance to inform employees, and was sent by electronic means to change the system [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and I must say that there has been a consultation with employees [[The president's ringing again.]] and the mobile wages due for the month of March were paid by April until 5 May. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-42	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: They didn't get it.]] Please, tell me in the hallway. Zoltán Vajda, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of State who manages the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. Tens of billions of state orders for TV2 who ignores the laws? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Vajda has the floor.
u2023-05-08-43	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, You would never want to silence those who disagree with you said your prime minister a few years ago. To reality, however, we must also recall another sentence: we must not look at what he says, but what he does. And you guys would do a lot of things to silence critical elements. When not 16-17-year-old students are faced with a baton of karma forces and tear gas in the children's faces, there are currently discrediting reports about critical students, doctors, teachers or opposition politicians. These embarrassing substances have one purpose: to silence people. And now lies have a measure, that's the number 400. In other words, in a few years the propaganda media, including TV2, lost 400 press-correction lawsuits. However, despite the laws, despite the final judgment of the court, despite the implementation, TV2 does not have to submit corrections. Is this channel above Hungarian law, the Hungarian court? The truth in the correctional statement is no use if you silence it. They shut him up, because TV2 pays the HUF 500,000 fine a few times a year, which is a ridiculous amount for a company with a turnover of 50 billion. You would think that members of the government would be outraged that TV2 does not give a damn about the legislation they support. Not like the Cabinet Office. Rather, you, Minister, have decided to buy advertising time with tens of billions of public money at this channel. So, I ask you, is it a reward for those who ignore Hungarian law? How do you explain how tens of billions of government orders are given to TV2 who ignores the laws? And finally: Satisfied [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] if you come to Hungary, you must respect our laws with their message, if the CEO of that channel has not made it his. [[The president's ringing again.]] where billions of dollars were spent on his ads? Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2023-05-08-44	Thank you very much, Congressman Vajda. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2023-05-08-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The government considers it important to state its position on priority issues and does so in a variety of ways, in press conferences, e-mails or even in the form of television information actions. The basic fact is that the ad booking tasks for each campaign are carried out by the agencies entrusted by the government, where the most important expectations are the maximum possible access and the wider use of tools. This is monitored by the government and, based on the experience so far, the agencies meet this requirement. I would also like to point out that the government advertises in countless printed and electronic media, both in their content and in their tone, and I would also like to say that they are extremely diverse in their worldview base. There are hundreds of psychics, one of which you have highlighted, which, to my knowledge, is one of the most viewed. We expect all actors, not this one, but all actors, to comply with the rules, and if they do not, then the judiciary has a task in this regard, and if the justice system makes a decision, then we respect these decisions. Moreover, the current government information activity focuses primarily on war affairs, because many international players want us to be more involved in this war, and the European Parliament has a position on this. That is why we believe it is important for the government to state its own position, too, because we do not want to go to war, we want peace, and the information actions you object to play a role in this endeavour. We may disagree on this, but we would rather not agree on this than let Hungary get involved in a conflict that it didn't want to be. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-46	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development: . Let's not be a colony! It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, the question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-08-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The actual model of competitiveness in Hungary since the change in methods would be called a colonial model. This neoliberal dogma, which destroys the social fabric system and prevents the actual civilian development, also occurred when Viktor Orbán described the competitive advantage of our country to Arab investors in Saudi Arabia, Riyadh, where the labour force is surprisingly cheap compared to its quality, and the labour code is extremely flexible. Thus, Hungarian workers working hard and hard were sold cheaply to foreign capitalists. Then the labour code was turned into a slave law and the strike law was neutered, thus guaranteeing global players to even chop wood on the back of Hungarian workers. Then, if the workers were skinned off the seventh skin, and there were no professionals left in the country, the neoliberal dogma would allow foreign guest workers, such as 400 unfortunate Filipinos, to come to the small town of Somogy County, the Tabra with 4,000 souls. And the same method was applied to educators. Why is that? That's because maid's wages and disenfranchisement are part of the nation's day laborers. If we keep looking at this, then indeed, some people ask why these teachers, teachers, kindergarten teachers are always complaining about low wages, and others are making bad money. Unfortunately, it is true, but it is the case that graduates' salaries should be compared to graduate salaries. And we have come to the point in Hungary that the average teacher's salary is less than 60 percent of the average graduating wages. That is why the community of Jobbik-Conservatives says that without normal education and normal wages, it is in fact an eternal fantasy that the civil layer gives the widest pedestal of this society. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's why I'm asking what you're doing to make it a truly competitive, knowledge-based [[The president's ringing again.]] and civil society. I'm waiting for an honest answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-08-48	Thank you, Congressman Ander Balázs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-08-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I could say that I have good news and bad news about your first suggestion: the colonialization of Hungary, as you said. My good news is that no one has been able to colonize Hungary. But here's the bad news: the left is, because you've been bought, and you're getting the money from the Colonial Center. [[Ander Balázs intervenes.]] And that's why they're playing politics the way they order it from the Colonial Center. [[12.50]] It's weird because sometimes when the Hungarian people listen to you, they think that it's really just an American Democratic party speech translated into Hungarian on the left. It's like it's not coming from the hearts of the Hungarian people, it's like it's on a foreign order, well, that's the bad news. And unfortunately, the Jobbik are in this line, and you're in this choir. It was a serious question for you how education can be competitive, how we can offer the best school for children, because that would be our basic goal. And if you are driven by this motivation, then I have another good news, because if you are presented to Parliament, you will be free to vote in favour of the law on the new teaching career, because that is exactly what you are aiming for. There are teachers when you were a student, when you were a teacher, when your children were students, you can always give such an example, who drew their hearts and souls better, who really did more, and this law finally creates the possibility, and that is the whole point of the law, all the other second-class questions except for the wage increase and the previous question, so that those who really put themselves there can earn more than the average, up to a hundred thousand forints, can earn hundreds of thousands more than those who bring the average level, but do not do as much for students as much as those we remember from our own childhood, or you can remember from among your colleagues. That's the point of this law, that's who [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] better teacher, better earn better in Hungary. This is going to be a breakthrough over 30 years after the change of regime. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-08-50	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport: It's an address. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor.
u2023-05-08-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, On the basis of a draft law for administrative consultation, the ownership or management of 12 castles would be transferred free of charge to public-interest trust foundations or other private-law entities, together with the equipment. Moreover, these are not empty decaying buildings, but castles renovated in recent years and designed to be a tourist attraction. In order to prepare the free robbery, the National Heritage Development Nonprofit Kft. is responsible for the preservation of Hungarian monuments. In March, he announced a group reduction, and in April the castles of Edelény and Pécel were closed in a rational way, and the workers were put on the street overnight. With these measures, they obviously want to justify the state's inability to operate the castles, the need to involve private actors. But what is the guarantee that the new maintenance will operate it and not close it, as is usually the case with private castles? The castle of Edelény is the largest tourist attraction in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén Castle County, on which the catering units are also heavily built. Last year, he received 28,000 visitors. The Edelényi also protested against the closure of the castle with signatures, expressing a clear opinion that the function of the castle should not change and that the castle park could be visited free of charge! I ask the honourable Deputy Minister for his reply on why, in such a decision, workers and residents are not considered partners. What will be the fate of the castle; what will be its function; who will be the new maintainer, and when will the fired workers be reinstated? They would like a concrete answer, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2023-05-08-52	Thank you very much, Congressman István Szabadi. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2023-05-08-53	[[No loudspeakers!]] Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to... [[Intercoms: We can't hear you!]] Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin by thanking you for giving me the opportunity to partially disprove a piece of news that gives rise to several misunderstanding in the press. The fact that we can talk about the future of castles at all is because, after the communists stole these castles from their original owners, the left-wing governments after the regime change did not cross a blade of grass in order to renovate these castles, castles and mansions. Since 2010, Viktor Orbán's second and subsequent governments have spent more than HUF 50 billion renovating these complexes. If opposition representatives took the effort and time to stay in these castles beyond the presence of the press, to enter the gates and face the conditions there, they would find that renovated castles require an additional HUF 10 billion, further renovation until the actual end, so these castles, which you and the representatives of the media often consider to be renovated, are not yet ready. Due to Hungary's lack of development resources, the budget for these castles is less than it should be. We are looking at the possibility of including private sources in the further development and operation of these castles, with a bill before Parliament, so that public functions remain in every case: visibility, viewing exhibitions, all public functions that you, representatives or even interested representatives of the media would like to protect. I would also like to set a good example. Look, for example, at the operation of the Károlyi Castle in Fehérvárcsurgó, this works in private operation, how much extra opportunities it carries, and please do not block from the fact that the model that operates in many countries of Western Europe, where private sources are involved in the further development of these castles, can also be implemented in Hungary. Take part in this debate, do not act like a bunny on a one-time basis [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Joking when he went to borrow the bear's lawnmower. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-08-54	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: "Luxury ranches instead of soil protection? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó.
u2023-05-08-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, Fidesz is committing the manyth attack on the soil. Public agricultural land was distributed among the mates; the rules of conversion and installation were reduced several times, and the existing, loose regulations were no longer respected, see the case of the Debrecen battery plant. What they have just done, however, has made the integration of agricultural land a low-level liberalisation, I think it goes beyond all borders. I think legislation should be in the national interest. I ask whether it was in national interest to squander state land. I think in times of food growth, we can see how much we can't. Is it in your national interest to build toxic battery factories on the best quality land in the country? And is it in its national interest that the fidesz new Defeats can build luxury ranches on broken lands? The Government decree on national settlement and construction requirements now broadens the concept of farmland, and with this amendment it will practically increase the capacity to build in agricultural areas from 3 percent to 30 percent, although this practically only legalizes existing practices. This is how half of Tihany has been built in in recent years, despite being a national park area. We see that on paper there are press houses, granaries, watershed cisterns, in reality villas, castles, swimming pools. And it is certainly no coincidence that the ministry of John Lazarus made this shady decree in secret at Christmas. The amendment of the OTEK in force in March is contrary to the Land Protection Law, the Basic Law and the national interest. Therefore, please respond that your ministry knew about this amendment of the regulation, the amendment of the OTEK, it intends to oppose and protect our environment and agricultural areas from installation. Thank you. [[Applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2023-05-08-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, State Secretary.
u2023-05-08-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, the expression that we have squandered the land fortune, I refuse, because that is not the case. It's always one of your terms. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] The other: I would like to note that the land for farmers! The programme was an extremely successful programme and important for the Hungarian countryside, and I would like to tell you now about the 10 hectares of land announced on 15 February, and I would like to share these numbers with you: 11 thousand parts of the land, 14 500 hectares were announced, of which 6688 properties received some 11 842 offers. On the other side of the question, which he also asked the Ministry: the government decree on national settlement and construction requirements, i.e. the OTEK, regulates the use and use of areas from a construction point of view. A possible change in the OTEC integration rules is not affected, so it should not, as appropriate, weaken land protection rules. During the protection process, the real estate authority acts on the basis of the provisions of the Land Protection Act and examines the eligibility of land for other purposes on the basis of the professional aspects of land protection laid down by law. [[13.00]] During this investigation, settlement and construction requirements are irrelevant. Under the Land Protection Act, land may be used for other purposes only with the permission of the real estate authority, except for some exceptions. In the event of a lack of authorisation, licences issued by other authorities shall not exempt the user from the legal consequences of the Land Protection Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-58	Thank you very much, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister of State. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "When will you introduce a maximum price for private health services?" It's an address. Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy has the floor.
u2023-05-08-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Unfortunately, Hungary is at the forefront of the number of preventable deaths among EU countries. Unfortunately, there is little willingness to address the problem, and the waiting list of health examinations and treatments is further aggravated, which sometimes extends beyond a year and a half. Hungarian people pay for both social security and private health services at the same time. On the basis of independent surveys, nearly 60 percent of the Hungarian population have already used private health services, where they have gone to basic treatments and investigations that have to be covered by the social security system. The weight of the problem is indisputable, especially in this economic crisis that has been hit by inflation. Everyday livelihood struggles cannot be made more difficult by the lack of access to healthcare services. As long as a gastric mirror can cost up to 80,000 forints, an abdominal and pelvic ultrasound can cost more than 30,000 forints, many will not be able to use these services, or if so, they will have to spend a quarter or a third of their salary on this. People's health cannot be turned into a market and profit! Therefore, we support and initiate the price capping of private health services on the part of LMP, first in the fields of diagnostics, screening and obstetric gynecological care. This step could also shorten the waiting list of investigations and provide quality and affordable health treatments for a wider range of society. We do not want to get rich in the health of others, but we want to improve it. I would like to ask the government representative what the government's position is on this. Do you support the introduction of a maximum price in private health? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2023-05-08-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-08-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, For a long time, the left has been trying to conditioned Hungarians for private health. Ferenc Gyurcsány started this, who said that, first of all, we must disperse the illusion that health care is free and that we must allow rational consumer behaviour. In the election campaign, Ferenc Gyurcsány confirmed here in Parliament that the visit fee was a real progressive reform before the previous election. So in addition to paying health care, the public should be paid, there should be a market health care, it was the left-wing program. And all that was done by Péter Márki-Zay, your Prime Minister's candidate, who said, to be honest, I'm calmer if the health business is not business, because where it's not business, it's ruined. It's clear what your direction is, taking some kind of profit out of health care, somehow creating paid health care, one way or another. This is not the direction we consider important, and we do not consider this direction acceptable. What we consider the only viable way is to have a public, free healthcare system available to everyone, with the best possible quality. That's why we raised the doctors' wages. In 2010, a starting medical salary was HUF 129 500, today HUF 687 thousand. The basic salary of a 41-year-old doctor at the top of a career was 262,000 at the beginning of our government, now HUF 2 million 380,000. But what you said was that waiting time should be reduced, but this is an important task. Today, people rightly hold the waiting time for the biggest problem in health care. Although 63 billion forints have been spent in recent years to reduce waiting lists, the epidemic has created a greater disadvantage here than we had before. If I look at the waiting list for cataract surgery, in 2012, at the beginning of our government, there were 28,000, now there are 12,000, but there were fewer before the outbreak. If I'm looking at the waiting list for hip replacements, there were 11,000 at the beginning of our government, and now there are 7,000, but there were lower numbers. We need to reduce the waiting time, not make people pay for health care, as you said. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-62	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Tünde Szabó, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Regional Development:. What new opportunities and prospects are expected this year in the field of territorial development thanks to the government's innovative measures? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman Tünde Szabó.
u2023-05-08-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We live in the age of danger, so it is particularly important to protect our values and our achievements in all areas. In recent years, we have had to face migration, the difficulties of epidemics, and the war in the neighbourhood and the energy crisis every day. The Government of Hungary has recognised in time that our security and stability are the first in these times, because we want to live in peace, and it is in the interests of the Hungarian people that jobs and families are safe in our country, and that our work for development does not stop or even stay on an evolving course. As government commissioner of the Economic Development Zone in North-East Hungary, it is essential for me to be able to provide citizens with a renewable environment in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, as well as with constantly increasing opportunities throughout the zone. The latest agreement signed with the leaders of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of six counties shows very well that in these difficult times, regional development policy is changing in a modern and innovative direction in Hungary. The government recognised the need to involve regions more actively in the preparation and implementation of territorial development decisions in order to modernise them more quickly. In this context, we will build closer cooperation with higher education institutions, scientific, religious, representative and civil society organisations, which will effectively preserve economic stability and investment growth. It is important that we focus on the possibilities of territorial development, thus Hungary will be among the five most successful and viable countries in the European Union by 2030. Dear Secretary of State, In the light of all this, I ask what new opportunities our constantly renewable territorial development concept can bring next year and this year. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Tünde Szabó. Dear Parliament, I don't see the Secretary of State. [[Dr. Csaba Latorcai: I'm standing!]] I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Latorcai.
u2023-05-08-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, the government pays particular attention to reducing the country's territorial differences, improving regional competitiveness and the quality of life of families, and we consider it essential to adapt the country's territorial policy to the new challenges of a rapidly changing world, to strengthen territorial aspects in sectoral development. To this end, we will modify the development goals, the national development and territorial development concept, which will be designated by 2030. We have started a professional dialogue by addressing the scientific, educational and economic sphere, associations of interest representatives, chambers and launching strategic cooperation. In order to increase the efficiency of territorial development decisions and sustainable development, territorial, local actors, the involvement of the county, partnership cooperation and the well-founded preparation and, of course, implementation of regional development programmes have a key role to play. In response to the different development needs of the regions, the government has identified five economic development zones, and has also adopted the new concept and programme of territorial development in the priority regions of Lake Balaton, the Central Danube and the Tokaj wine region. [[13.10]] The Tokaj-Zemplén regional development programme continues in the north-east-Hungary economic development zone with HUF 150 billion from domestic sources, thus significantly supporting the infrastructure development of the region. The Territorial Operational Programme, which uses EU funds for the years 2021-2027, supports the development of the county with a budget of more than HUF 1700 billion, giving preference to the least developed county in the allocation of funds. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I also assure you that the government is working for the Hungarian people in these times of treason and war on the left, and will do everything in its power to ensure that EU funds are available as soon as possible to achieve the objectives of territorial development. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-08-66	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Latorcai. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Energy: Action? It's an address. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor.
u2023-05-08-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At the end of the last week, Pope Francis visited Hungary and spent three days in Hungary. I believe that the presence and speech of the most important person in the Christian Church could have meant a spiritual cleansing, which is very much needed in times of distress, which are affected by the current war and energy crisis. In addition to spiritual cleansing, however, it is important to keep our country, the environment around us, clean. Protecting our environment is a common concern for all of us and our collective responsibility. In our basic law, we are committed to cultivate and protect the natural and man-made values of the Carpathian Basin, and to bearing responsibility for our children for the careful use and protection of our natural resources. In addition to the enormous damage caused by illegal waste from a landscape protection point of view, it is important to draw attention to the nature of pollution and its effects on human health. The disposal and management of waste is one of the main environmental problems of international communities, which should not be taken lightly. For this reason, the government and the governing party are not only fighting illegal waste through sound slogans, but also, in the context of credible environmental protection, by actions. Recently, for example, it took place in the.Train! It is also a voluntary action for pure Hungary. The project is the largest voluntary waste collection movement in Hungary, which has been organised for the 11th time this year with the support of the Ministry of Energy. Fortunately, the action is of great interest year after year, so I ask the Secretary of State how she would appreciate this year's, TeSzedd! Action. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-08-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2023-05-08-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You mentioned Pope Francis, so allow me to quote the Holy Father. He says that education on environmental responsibility can encourage behaviour that has a direct and significant impact on environmental care, and this is part of a generous and dignified creativity that shows the best side of man. I think it's anywhere who's been involved in the, Take it! In action, these ideas have indeed been experienced, because for them it is important to protect our created environment, and indeed a very, very cheerful one, and I think they have actually shown their best side in team building activity. I personally participated in several locations at the.Szedd! In action, and I have seen that people who are involved in this action are indeed extremely committed to protecting the environment, protecting our created world and nature, and this matter is considered important. If you look at the numbers, what we can tell you is that last year about 40,000 volunteers worked at 900 points, they managed to collect 850 tons of waste. I would like to say that the figures are not yet final, as the coordinators are constantly receiving new information, but it was clear from the beginning that most people registered in the action this year compared to recent years. This is shown by the data already received, as we can see from the data received by 8 May that at more than 2,000 collection points, over 90,000 volunteers from more than 3 000 volunteer groups collected more than 83 thousand bags of waste, corresponding to roughly 1669 tons of garbage. I would also like to thank everyone who has participated in this process. In action, and I call on the Member to continue to support these initiatives in the future. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-05-08-70	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. Dear Parliament, Lot. Erzsébet Németh, a representative of DK, and Ferenc Varga, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:. What do you intend to do to help the poor, who are hit by drastic inflation in Orbán more than average? It's an address. It is for Congressman Ferenc Varga.
u2023-05-08-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You have announced as a triumph that inflation in Orbán has fallen from 25.4 in February to 25.2 percent in March. You're going to use your propaganda machine to put the price on sanctions, which, of course, we know is a lie. The sanctions affect the rest of the EU in the same way, but inflation is the highest in the EU, and it is four times the euro area. This is clearly the result of the government's economic policy. The rise in food prices exceeded 43 percent, and even basic food prices increased by three quarters: bread, butter, eggs, dairy products, or pasta. We also know that the poorer a family is, the greater the share of its income must be spent on food, and that the higher the average is affected by inflation. And who's poor today? The vast majority of people who can't support their families even on a continuous basis, including small pensioners, public workers and people with disabilities, are not excluded. You also released the hand of the Hungarian gypsy. A survey of 23 shows that the proportion of poverty or social exclusion is 60.1 percent. Of course, we know that not all of them, because the bridge is hardly a problem for the purchase of 92 HUF eggs or 4300 HUF trappist cheese that cannot account for the costs of the project. But the fact is that there are still hundreds of thousands of families in Hungary who are getting worse because of Viktor Orbán, and Klára Dobrev's shadow government is their only hope for a decent life. In the meantime, however, what do you intend to do to help the poor, other than obligate supermarkets to sell off their goods, which they do week after week without doing?
u2023-05-08-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Ferenc Varga. The answer to your question will be Bence Rétvári. Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-08-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is not the hope of Hungary for Klára Dobrev, but for Ferenc Gyurcsány to return to power. But as for you, honourable Member, you have recently arrived at DK from Jobbik. When you were in Jobbik, your former president, Peter James, said about gypsies, that a large part of the gypsies steal fruit, pick on the middle of the room and don't want to work. You didn't object to this at the time, you said that you should see on Jobbik the positive spectrum of where the party came from. I think that the process of the Jobbik People's Party has ended with my nomination. And then a few months later, your betters ended, because you sat in DK. So a long time ago, you said that you were the People's Party of Jobbik, and you didn't have any problem with what the then party president said, and now you say the words from DK that any other DK would say. Honourable Congressman, If you look at what has been done in recent years so that there are as few deprived and poor people as possible in this country, you can see that a million more people have jobs. If there is a good social programme, which is for gypsies, not gypsies, the most important and the most secure for everyone, it is precisely for someone to work. [[13.20]] In addition, we have also established a tax system that has reduced personal income tax to a minimum. In fact, for those who have children, they raise underage children, and for those who have children, the weight of their children and all other workers is essentially gone. If you look at how the number of people under the age of 18 people living in poverty or in severe material deprivation has changed according to Eurostat, well, their share of people under our government has decreased from 29 percent to 13 percent. This is the highest proportion of children. In the case of active age, 18-64 years: according to Eurostat, this fell from over 20 per cent to below 10 per cent, to 2.4 per cent. With whom we could, we helped, and whoever had a job is safer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-74	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Finance:. When will entrepreneurs receive substantial help in the development of wages? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister at the request of István Nagy Minister for Economic Development János Fónagy. You have the floor, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian notary, Congressman.
u2023-05-08-75	Mr President, Dear House, In the process of giving up, betraying or procrastination the interests of Hungarian workers for more than three decades, I do not wish to be entirely incorrect against the representatives of the government sitting here. I am not asking that the EU average wage is 33 500 euros per year, i.e. more than 1 032,000 forints per year when the Hungarian people's salary is reached, although we could ask that, because in recent decades we have had to listen to numerous manifestations that make a person's hair burn, even mine, from the bakery that can be opened in Vienna. [[Defiance.]] But we must say that the realistic and tangible goal could at least be a balanced approach to the countries of the region. According to statistical data, even the approach to the countries in the region has not occurred, even though the government could start in three directions if its intentions were serious. On the one hand, the strategic contracts of multi-company companies could lead to a slow increase in wages, which is permitted by productivity. On the other hand, the state itself, Mr State Secretary, could also start by gradually increasing wages by European standards, i.e. an approximation to the European average. However, the subject of my question is the Hungarian entrepreneurs. As a conservative community, we want normal wages, but we do not expect extra sacrifices from Hungarian entrepreneurs, we do not want small entrepreneurs to increase wages by one and a half times. We want to create a fund to support Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the gradual but predictable development of wages by involving cohesion funds. The question is therefore clear: has the government opened up to finally bringing them home instead of freezing EU funds, and if so, to create a fund from which small businesses can be directly supported to start raising their wages and at least bring their standards closer to the European average? I look forward to your merit answer. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-08-76	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2023-05-08-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Two minutes will give me only a slick and far from complete list of programs that are now available for the purpose you have asked for. The operational programme for economic development and innovation has more commonly been known as GINOP to provide support to companies of some HUF 342.5 billion, and 6348 projects have received support. The energy cost and investment support programme for SMEs was launched by 220 billion. The government also extended the interest rate stop to SMEs' variable rate loans as of 15 no-vember 22. The list is not exhaustive: EXIM Baross Gábor has launched a Reindustrialisation Credit Scheme, which is an envelope of around 3000 billion, of which 500 billion have already been used by businesses. This amounts to around 4 per cent of GDP. A similar large, significant amount is the EXIM Savings Investment Program, which was opened to applicants on 1 January 23. This programme, with a HUF 100 billion grant, complements the HUF 150 billion non-refundable funding of the EXIM Saving Credit Programme launched in November 22 It is very important in the SME support system and has perhaps been the most successful in the last 20 years, the Széchenyi Card Programme, which provides significant, continuous and accessible resources to maintain lending and avoid recession. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-78	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, President of the Hungarian National Bank of Hungary, President of Hungary, President of Hungary, would like to ask a question: Why would they ban cash, which should be constitutional law? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2023-05-08-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Vice President, Another conspiracy theory can become a reality written by the Kuruc.info news portal, the public would charge the public with digital central bank money... cash may also be the public money of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. According to your statement as vice president of the MNB, cash is likely to be out of the system if digital central bank money takes over. China, the US and the European Central Bank are currently most concerned with this development of the new world order. During the Covid dictatorship, steps have been taken towards total surveillance, and now, by banning the use of cash, which is still a freedom, you can take your money away from anyone by pressing a button. The excess of the executive mafia is nothing compared to this government's intention, which our country Movement would like to stop, making cash use a constitutional right. In response to last month's speech by our party president, András Tállai State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance admitted that it is indeed a goal and intention to reduce cash flow. It wasn't in the government program, and they didn't have an election program. That's not fair at all. With postal closures, the elderly are also forced to use credit cards, and in many places, for example, public transport tickets can no longer be purchased for cash, so they can be punished without a credit card. You think that's legal right now? According to our country, the main or maximum withdrawal of the five-forinted ones is acceptable. What do you think of that, Mr. Vice President? The five-forint coin is no longer worth the cost of its own material, nor is it even worth a pound of non-ferrous metal waste as a currency. The MNB withdrew single and two-forint coins 15 years ago, which resulted in savings of HUF 3-4 billion at national level. Are you willing to take action in this area because of the inflation rates in Hungary, which are the EU record? Thank you for your reply. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-05-08-80	Thank you, Congressman President Novak. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank, Vice-President Barnabas Virág.
u2023-05-08-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In a previous comment, it has been said that it is always dangerous to try to find information on important matters based on sensational media news. I think the problem starts here and here. First of all, in my presentation, I would like to explicitly deny the statement that there is any plan in the central bank to ban cash, to release cash. There's no such plan. I'm sure you couldn't hear or read such a statement from me or other colleagues at the central bank. So once again, I think it's a sensational media report. As long as there are people in Hungary for whom cash use is important either as a currency or as a savings instrument, there will be cash in Hungary. In other words, the MNB Act clearly states that the banknotes and coins issued by the MNB are legal tender in Hungary; I would like to stress that they are legal tender. [[13.30]] Any anomalies in this regard, please, if you experience them, please signal to the central bank, and we will deal with these anomalies. Very briefly about what my lecture was about. My presentation on the development of digital ticket bank money was that one of the most important areas for preserving financial sovereignty will be the challenges of the money system in the next period, where an important state monopoly is threatened by the world's technological revolution, the big-tech companies, bitcoin, crypto devices, etc. We must respond correctly to this challenge; we must give an answer through which we will be able to preserve our financial sovereignty. More than a hundred central banks deal with this issue, including the Hungarian National Bank. Finally, with a brief reference to the five-forints, the situation is constantly assessed by the National Bank. Here the key question is the role of the five-forints in traffic. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If this is significantly reduced, it can be an important indicator that it is worth taking out.
u2023-05-08-82	Thank you very much.
u2023-05-08-83	In recent years, we have seen that in the rising inflation environment, there were about 30-33 percent [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] the role of the five-forint coin in circulation. Accordingly, the situation will continue to be examined. (The President's ringing again.) Thank you very much for asking.
u2023-05-08-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Prime Minister a question:. Will the government withdraw this regulation? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, who is responsible and competent on the subject, will answer the question at the request of Minister of Prime Minister Miklós Panyi. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the April 27th issue of the Hungarian Gazette, the decree of the Government was published that public hearing can be held in administrative proceedings without the personal presence of the data subjects. It is worth tasting: public hearing. Without what? It's out of bounds. It's like a concert without an audience, like Lőrinc Mészáros without public procurement, or Zsolt Bayer without cynicism. The point is taken away. The public hearing was created so that people could ask the authorities about important matters that had a significant impact on their fate. If you don't let people in for a public hearing, you can't call it a public hearing. That's a close-up. Of course, we know why Fidesz is doing this: because you know very well that Hungarian people are saying no to the construction of battery factories. You practically banned the referendum in Hungary, and now it hurts you to be confronted by the Hungarians in the context of a public hearing. You do not have the minimum respect to show respect for the Hungarian people. You have no respect for the people who live here to listen to their opinions. The question is extremely simple: is the government willing to withdraw this extremely outrageous regulation? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2023-05-08-86	Thank you, Congressman Csárdi. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Panyi.
u2023-05-08-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We agree that appropriate transparent communication on issues of public interest is of paramount importance. [[Antal Csárdi: Are you going to withdraw it?]] That is why the dollar left should account for more than HUF 4 billion that they received from abroad last year during the parliamentary elections and were silent about. If it is really so important for you to inform Hungarian citizens, public information, transparency, respect, which is what Congressman is talking about, then you would make it clear who your foreign financiers are, what they used the dollars they gave you, equivalent to more than HUF 4 billion, and what they expect you to do for this. They could clear themselves, but they don't do that. So much for the credibility of the Hungarian left, respect for citizens. With regard to the legislation, I would first of all like to state that the rule which you have challenged is merely an opportunity for the authorities and the municipalities. So this is an opportunity. Please don't hysterize the Hungarian public. I would also like to inform Mr President that the regulation is not new, as it has already been used during the Crown Virus pandemic. There's good experience in his operation. This experience is positive both on the part of the authorities and on the part of the municipalities. In general, it is also true that the municipalities support measures that facilitate their operation, reduce bureaucracy and create room for manoeuvre for them, from which several have been born in recent years. I would therefore like to ask the local authorities for their opinion on this matter as well. I would also like to point out that the number and range of participants can be extended in almost unlimited ways during the online hearing, and that the circle of the public can only be extended. I would also like to point out that, on all requests submitted by the deadline, the Authority will always respond to comments and will publish the full documentation of this on the website of the Government Office. Therefore, the public will not be harmed in any way. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I therefore ask Congressman not to hysterize [[Antal Csárdi: We have heard this, thank you very much.]] public opinion on this case. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-08-88	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Panyi. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice:. This is the rule of law according to the left? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2023-05-08-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fighting the rule of law in Brussels and retaliation in Hungary, if someone has a different opinion, just like in Communist times? Around the 2022 elections, Action for Democracy provided more than HUF 3 billion of foreign funding in the left-wing election campaign. Of this, about HUF 1.8 billion was allocated to the Hungarian Movement of All Péter Márki-Zay. That's a fact, because he made his own statement. He also added the following - I quote: "In addition to the operation of the MMM, we supported the protests, and with a smaller amount we supported the election in Jászberény, the legal protection of activists who were detained for their activities during the elections. I mean, from American rolling dollars, the Márki-Zay Péters not only intervened in the Jászberény election campaign, they reported right-wing activists, carried them, intimidated them to silence them. Since 2019 the management of Jászberény has been on the left hand. It is a fact that since 2019 in Jászberény, when a different opinion is expressed against the left-wing city leadership, reports and press with prison are being made. All from the rolling dollars. In fact, if government leaders or citizens press charges just one of the many examples: At the event of Péter Márki-Zay, an elderly Jászberény resident was violently pushed up and yelled, "Let's dig it! It was immediately closed by the authorities, saying that the unsub was unknown; and on the basis of television and video footage, it was possible to prove the identity of the perpetrators. In this spirit, the question arises: according to the left, we do not have the rule of law, but where there is left-wing power, can they abuse it? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The question arises: what role does the brother of the mayor of Jászberény, who is the president of the court, play?
u2023-05-08-90	Thank you very much.
u2023-05-08-91	Is it true that he's using the power of the court president to protect the small body? [[The president's ringing again.]]
u2023-05-08-92	Please.
u2023-05-08-93	Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply on what has been said. Thank you.
u2023-05-08-94	I ask you with all due respect to the time limit. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2023-05-08-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Your concern is entirely justified. I would like to confirm that the Minister for Justice asked the European Commission for information in February 2023 to cooperate in whatever form with the organization you have designated, from which the rolling dollars come. Therefore, the case is taken very seriously by the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and wishes to request information at a high level. Another question, perhaps not by accident, is that the European Commission has not yet answered this question. Honourable Congressman, As for what happened in Jászberény, I am not competent to take a stand. However, I would like to advise you that if there is any conflict of interest in specific cases, then, of course, the procedure has the possibility to request the exclusion of the judge or to request the exclusion of the whole court on the grounds that the judges may not be able to make an impartial decision. Of course, that will be decided by the court on matters where, by the way, let's say, the mayor and the court president are close relatives. [[13.40]] This should, of course, be examined separately in all cases. There is no rule that would project bias to the whole court on this basis, but I believe that there is a legal solution; I can recommend this to you. And I propose to all of us, what my fellow State Secretary has just demanded of the left-wing parties involved, to account for the rolling dollars, to account for all the campaign support and campaign funding they received in the previous elections, even to prevent similar illicit party funding in the next election, in the municipal elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-96	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development: "How can this be? It's an address. At the request of Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent on the subject, State Secretary Tamás Menczer will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman Zoltán Varga.
u2023-05-08-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We can clearly see that in recent times the government has been trying to justify in all sorts of circumstantial ways why it is worth it for us to spend at least 320 billion forints of state support, i.e. public money, so that the Chinese can produce their batteries in Debrecen. One of the recurring reasons for this is that the investment will create jobs for the Hungarian people. However, in recent days, the Chinese producer has been talking about the fact that he wants to fill a large part of the 9,000 jobs with Chinese workers. So, we spent 320 billion on what? To produce batteries delivered to a foreign market by a Chinese factory with Chinese migrant workers, while destroying, poisoning the air, drinking water, agricultural land of the Debrecen people, but also their lives and future. 320 billion for the Chinese, while teachers' salary increases would only cost 270 billion forints, there is no money for that. Hospital debt is about 30-40 billion forints, but apparently the government is not rushing to pay it either. The impact of inflation in Orbán, price increases and food price increases can be seen daily, but there is not even the intention of the government to support the people, while the money is uncounted to serve the Chinese state. Orbán betrayed not only the Debrecen, but also the entire country. He's the one who made us live badly. There is no government that is so indifferent to the suffering of its own people in the midst of a crisis of its own, and as long as Orbán is in power, there is no chance that this will change. Therefore, today the shadow government remains Hungary's only hope for [[Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány's only hope! Eszter Vitalos: May God save us from it!]] To really spend taxpayers' money in the right place. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you, how many Chinese migrant workers are actually accounted for at the Debrecen factory? How can it be that there are 320 billion for the Chinese battery company, but in the middle of the livelihood crisis caused by inflation in Orbán, there is no one penny to support people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Andrea Hegedüs and Judith Ráczné Earth applaud. Eszter Vítalos: What an iron applause!]]
u2023-05-08-98	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2023-05-08-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, This isn't the first debate between us. As I recall, the first debate was under Covid when you attacked Officer General Muller Cecília in a depraved and unfair manner, and I had the opportunity and opportunity to protect the Chief Medical Officer from you. You didn't act in the interests of Hungary. You're also a black belt liar among Gyurcsánys. [[Zoltán Varga: I'm honored, Mr. Secretary.]] He is also a black belt in the sense that he always acts against the Hungarian interest. You, Gyurcsányists at the time of migration, which is, by the way, pro-immigration, were, and are, under Covid, anti-vaccinations, war party, sanctions party, so they don't happen to find out what the interests of the people are. As regards investments, they are also acting against the Hungarian interest, because for these investments there is a huge competition throughout the world, and you want these investments not to take place in Hungary. It is not the question, honourable Member, that these investments will be made, but the question is where, and we are in competition because the Hungarian interest dictates that they should be made here, because they create jobs, strengthen the economy, pay taxes and help economic growth. With regard to teachers, I would like to bring you here so that your excellent leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Shadow Chancellor, Csaba Molnár, have said that you are working to ensure that the EU funds we owe do not arrive in Hungary. [[Zoltán Varga: So you can't steal it!]] This is considered a patriotic duty. The difference between us, the Gyurcsány Party and the Orbán Government is that we work for our country, that is what we consider our patriotic duty, and you are working against Hungary, that is the difference. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-100	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Sas, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "How long do we have to wait for the real wage arrangement of firefighters? Mr Zoltán Sas has the floor.
u2023-05-08-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 4 May, on the occasion of St. Florian's Day, they were greeted in several places in the country in recognition of the work of firefighters. Aside from the festive occasion, however, many things could not have been enjoyed by firefighters. In recent years, their numbers have decreased by 15-20 percent in cities. It can be concluded that working in disaster management and planning a long-term career cannot, unfortunately, be done because of low salaries. Therefore, in order to complement their low income from the state, they often take second jobs and the people living near the border tend to work abroad. The intervention firefighters thus carry out their task with a smaller number of efforts, i.e. guaranteeing the country's fire safety. It is amazing that a starting firefighter's salary, despite last year's bonus increase, is hardly above the guaranteed minimum wage, even though they are necessarily at risk of life in the performance of their duties. In addition, the government even took the early retirement pension away from them. According to Jobbik-Conservatives committed to legal order, our country's public security, including its fire safety, is a social interest that precedes many other things. In view of this, we believe that firefighters should have significantly greater financial and professional respect, and not only for the occasion of St. Florian's Day. According to Jobbik-Conservatives, in order to bring the wages of firefighters closer to European wages, it is not only necessary to raise allowances, it is possible in the long term to include the increase in the salary base. We also want normal Hungary and normal wages for firefighters. In view of all this, what do you intend to do about the gradual decline in the number of firefighters? Are you planning to include him in the salary base instead of raising the allowance? When do you give the firefighters back the possibility of early retirement? Thank you in advance for your answers. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-08-102	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Sas. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-08-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that all recognition is due to all Hungarian firefighters, even when we talk about disaster protection situations, even when we talk about fires, but also when all the world's eyes, let's say, were focused on the earthquake in Turkey, and the Hungarian Hunor Special Rescue Unit was one of the finest achievements in saving lives, saving a family of many Turkish families. We have not only recognised this in Hungary, but we can also congratulate them from here, as the Turkish President has also acknowledged the activities of the Hungarian rescue organization Hunor. It is clear from this that the Hungarian fire department, what Hungarian disaster protection is doing, stands in its place anywhere in the world, which is why their recognition is important. This is why the government decided last year to make a noticeable wage increase of more than HUF 116 thousand on 1 September, which is one of the steps that will be followed by another wage increase from 1 January next year. So everyone could see two advances in their wages. This is particularly important, because we all know that we all see that, because of the penalty inflation, every firefighter's expenditure is greater than it was two years ago. That is why this wage increase was important last year, and that is why next year's wage increase for firefighters will be important. In recruitment, firefighters also try to organize as many events as possible in replacements, professional promotions: youth fire schools which will be a kind of entrance to basic fire training, various fire fighting activities, there they are on career guidance days, common police and fire days, City Park, Hungexpón, Construmán, FeHoVa, agricultural exhibitions and everywhere else. Thank you for your work. Indeed, they get a lot of alarms every year, and each one is well cared for. Happy birthday to the firefighters. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2023-05-08-104	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: "Why did the police ban our counter-discretion instead of the LGBTQP march? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2023-05-08-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Instead of the LGBTQP-propaganda parade, our country was banned by the police this year, although both parties submitted their announcements in the same possible first second. The organizers of the LGBTQP-propaganda parade can thank you for the two-thirds victory of Fidesz, as their writhing is not officially banned. Unfortunately, our country is the only party that demands the elimination of the deviant event, since we do not accept the support and tolerant policies of the Gyurcsányek and the Orbáns in the case of all kinds of sexual deviants and aberration marches. According to the so-called Child Protection Act, homosexual propaganda should not be conducted in a visible way for children, but the government actually tolerates it in the same way. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy intervenes.]] Like putting rainbow flags on our public institutions. Why? What the Fidesz government has not known or wanted for 12 years in connection with the parade, we solved two years ago and partly last year: their most symbolic displacement from Andrássy Road, with the acquisition of several other representative public areas. This year we only managed to get the part of Andrássy Road in the Körút, because the government kneeled down in front of the homosexual lobby. This time, on 15 July, both announcements were received at 0:00 0 minutes 0 seconds at the same time, with a smaller history of law, because this has not happened before in the case of other announcements. The police, however, did not even share the outer Andrássy road in the wind or in the length, but fully ensure migration only to the LGBTQP propagandaists, while the Thin Csongor [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] The meeting announced by the President of Hungary in Budapest was banned. Dear Secretary of State, Why not ban the LGBTQP parade instead? Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-08-106	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-08-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Hungary guarantees the right of a very wide assembly. You may not hear such sentences in Brussels, or you do not read such foreign-language articles, but this is true, and there are obviously events that are the same as the government's value world, which are the same as its decision, and some are contrary. Even when the government called attention to vaccinations during the outbreak, the police allowed you to demonstrate against mandatory coronal virus vaccination. You considered the measures to protect people's health to be excessive closures, and even though it was completely contrary to what you said and what the government said, it was still an opportunity for you. [[Hell, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That the law allowed them to demonstrate against the coronal virus vaccine. There is no doubt that many have raised their eyebrows when Gergely Christmas told them online that Pride is one of the most beautiful festivals in Budapest. Obviously, it may be an important time in the year, but Budapest has more important events or pride than this parade, which is being held year after year. As far as the specific case is concerned, honourable Member, for years there has been an attempt to negotiate with the authorities on how to hold two opposite events, since there are no two similar events in one place. Obviously, this could lead to difficulties or even aggressiveness, so the Assembly Act also introduced the provision that if more meetings are announced at the same place at the same time and they are not possible at the same time, due to their nature or the peculiarity of the site, then priority is given to what was previously notified to the assembly authority. There's a race going on here with time. Sometimes the organizers of the parade are those who press the enter button faster or click on the mouse, sometimes you. Now it was a case where the organizers of the parade took a tenth of a second advantage over you. The Authority's position is objective: which came in earlier, regardless of value choice [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] it was approved and which was later proposed to hold the event elsewhere. Thank you. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]]
u2023-05-08-108	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Mrs Bernadett Bakos, Member of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister for Construction and Transport:. How does the government compensate for the revenue lost because of the county and country lease? It's an address. Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett has the floor.
u2023-05-08-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr House. Dear Secretary of State, On 1 May, the government introduced the tenement of the county and country, which is valid for almost all public transport flights in one county or throughout the country. This partly met our proposal for the introduction of a climate lease, as the new construction really makes it easier for many people to travel by using a single lease for rail and bus transport and at a reduced price. However, the new lease in its current form is only a half-solution, as it does not apply to local public transport. This would be one of the main advantages of the climate lease proposed by the LMP: it would create the urban-suburban tariff community, because it is the only way to attract commuters from the agglomeration from car to rail, HÉV or bus. In addition, there is also a major problem with new leases: the government compensates only a fraction of the losses to transport companies. So far, only HUF 6 billion of extra resources have been decided, which will certainly not be enough to compensate companies with a lack of resources. The lease of the county and country only makes sense if it has adequate funding and does not lead to a reduction in the quality of the service. To my previous question, you replied that the government was open to involvement by the municipalities, but this has not yet been achieved. Local transport companies will be able to join if the government makes them financially interested, i.e. they will be able to make up for their losses. Dear Secretary of State, When will local public transport be included in the rent of the county and country, providing adequate financial support? Will you be willing to provide additional compensation to national transport companies in addition to what has already been done? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2023-05-08-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Bálint the Great.
u2023-05-08-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, let me start by saying that over 220,000 people have used this service in a few days, so I would also like to thank all the employees of the MÁV-Volán Group for helping to introduce this transition, the introduction of the new product so flexibly, because this would not have been possible without them. I have already had the opportunity to reply on this point to the fact that this is not a climate lease. I would like to continue to confirm that it is not a climate lease, and I think I can say on behalf of many of us that it is fortunate that it is not a climate lease, because the climate lease has increased to more than five times in a very short period of time, and we do not want this to cost five times as much as this new county or country lease in Hungary. His question concerned two parts, one of which is when local transport can take place. I can give you the same answer I gave you the last time. When the municipalities want to join this process, as the government continues to be open to the accession intentions of the municipalities, I can report on the good news that professional consultations with many municipalities and county municipalities have mostly taken place. I can also say that, for example, the agreement is imminent with regard to a city with county rights in Zalaegerszeg, so I am sure that we will soon be reporting on further developments in this regard as well. As regards budget financing, I would just like to say that it is financed by the budget in the same way as it has done in the case of Community transport. For example, as since 2010, the price of BKV leases can be unchanged because the Hungarian State also provides significant budgetary resources every year for this purpose. This will also be the case in this regard, so I hope that more people will use this new service than ever before. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-112	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bálint the Great. Dear Parliament, Andrea Hegedüs, a representative of DK, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why are students of public schools being punished?" It's an address. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs has the floor. [[14.00]]
u2023-05-08-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You mustn't judge by category who is my neighbor and who isn't. Become the neighbor of your brother or sister whom you see in difficulty. You know who said that? The Pope of Ferenc, whose visit in Hungary was scheduled by Viktor Orbán for a government decision which provides support exclusively for church schools. This profoundly cynical decree is ignoring the words of Pope Francis, since public schools have been left out of it. According to the decision, public schools are not entitled to a premium for the payment of bills, despite the government's seven-fold increase in fees. The government of Orbán is not a neighbor of public schools, leading in Christian piety, but far from Christian morality. Students of public schools are not worth as much in the eyes of Viktor Orbán as students of church schools. I also see signs of this in Miskolc, where the slow decline in public primary and secondary schools has still received promises, but still not a premium for the payment of increasing overhead bills, but not to at least not the heating of the street. While church schools are completely renovated, public schools are only half or none. While a swimming pool was built in church schools, for example, the bathrooms in the Pattantyús and Széchenyi Elementary Schools can't be closed, the faucet is running and the teachers are leaking, the Kazinczy Ferenc Elementary School is rocking as a house of cards, the windows are supported by boards, and the roof is soaking here as well. Klára Dobrev's shadow government would never allow a child to do worse with one or another of the schools of the state, based on the parents' view of the world. Therefore, the shadow government is Hungary's only hope for [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to give all students quality education.
u2023-05-08-114	Thank you very much.
u2023-05-08-115	So I ask Mr. Secretary of State why students of public schools are being punished. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-08-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think this is proof that Pope Francis' visit to the whole country has been filled with grace, that the DK is already quoting Pope Francis, it was worth it to the Holy Father to come here. Regardless of the fact that it was untrue, they could not give up their habit of doing so. You've made a false statement. Allow me to put this right first. You said that only church schools received compensation. This is certainly not the case: Church schools also received 12 billion forints for last year, and then they received 14 billion forints for this year. [[Andrea Hegedüs: It's only on a promise level!]] also as compensation for debt, and the part that came after that was that the church schools were actually given, because they also have the same children as everyone else, so they also deserve the compensation to be gay in church schools, not only in public schools, and we have passed legislation that there could not be any reduction in temperature at any school, state or church, honourable Member. [[Andrea Hegedüs: Windows don't close!]] This is not the way you put it towards the churches: the point between DK 16 and the Vatican Treaty was, however, to terminate. What does that mean? This means, on the other hand, that you would noticeably reduce the support for children going to church schools, so for you, the child going to church school is worth less. With these speeches, they prepare why, once in life, they will ever be government-led, they will reduce the support of church schools. [[Andrea Hegedüs intervenes.]] that doesn't mean reducing the church's support. This is not to be done with priests or bishops, honourable Member, but with families and children who thought they were sending their children to church school. You thought Ferenc Gyurcsány said that we would teach them the Scriptures. [[Andrea Hegedüs: But for church schools...]] I mean, church people, priests. In the spirit of tolerance, one of their fellow politicians said that it was idiots who wanted to live their lives by the rules of an ancient cartoon book. As for hope, I can only tell you that Klára Dobrev is only Ferenc Gyurcsány's last hope of returning to power, not Hungary's. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-118	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, To the last question, I give the floor to Róbert Dudás, a representative of Jobbik, who wants to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. In the middle of Europe, the postal wages should also be Europeans. It's an address. Before I give the floor, I will hand over the chair to President János Latorcai. You have the floor, Congressman Róbert Hondas. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2023-05-08-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I am in a privileged position right now, because my question probably did not bring this great attention, but the entire Hungarian government is present. I welcome the Hungarian Government, but I will probably get an answer from the Secretary of State. For the longest time, I have spoken in favour of Hungarian postmen, Hungarian postmen and, through them, Hungarian society. I have asked on many occasions not to destroy the Hungarian post offices that are still in operation and, by the way, I think that they are certainly in need of restructuring and restructuring, especially by saying that modernisation is taking place. Please, it's not modernization, but it's safe to say that it's probably deliberate destruction. As I began, I have spoken for a long time on this subject, but from week to week, from month to month, you will always provide me with a new story, a new subject that will require me to speak again. I asked you to provide budgetary resources to keep the postal offices open. I asked them to provide a budget for raising the wages of postal workers; I merely asked for an inflation-following wage increase, which, unfortunately, would not help much in their situation, but at least would not impair the purchasing power of their otherwise extremely low salary. With great respect, I ask the Secretary of State and the whole government, after the news says that it can still wait for hundreds of post offices to be closed, so that they do not do this, the countryside will not be lined up, but will provide development, budgetary resources for the opening of offices and the raising of wages for those working there. They also deserve European wages here, in the middle of Europe, as in all other sectors. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-08-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Again, I welcome my fellow Members. Mr János Fónagy Deputy Minister, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, he has raised the subject many times, and I have told you for many times that the 24,000 workers who still do their work conscientiously in the post office deserve all recognition and respect for society, not to mention their salary. The law on postal services, which you also cited, directly and indirectly does not imply that the permanent postal service facilities of metropolitan cities providing recruitment services will not be reduced. Posta is a 150-some-year-old national institution, modernising and modernising it, I suppose, is not a controversial goal. The provisions of the Postal Act, which you referred to earlier, only apply to post offices allowing the deposit of mail and official documents to be served, this is a reflection of your comment on the reduction of the network. The management of Magyar Posta also agreed on an average of around 10 percent of the physical jobs of the lower rank, with the interest organisations up to 15 percent in the first months of this year, in addition to the war and the penalties that were wrong. For the first time, the increased wages were paid to workers for the month of April. Adapting the operation of Posta to changing consumer habits is essential for further wage developments. Otherwise, runaway energy prices represent some 20 billion surplus for the Posta [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the solution, management and financing of this is our joint task. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the end of the questions, and now the questions and answers to the hour of immediate questioning will follow. Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When? Mr Gergely Arató is not in the Chamber. Accordingly, OGY Law 43. I consider your question withdrawn within the meaning of paragraph 3 of Section 3. [[14.10]] Congressman Ferenc Dávid, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development an immediate question: "When? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Fónagy was entitled to reply. [[On Dr. Ferenc Dávid's signal:]] Thank you very much for warning me that you will accept the person who is responding. I would also like to inform you that the Minister will have to answer you at the hour of the third instant questions if you have requested, but now Secretary of State János Fónagy will answer you.
u2023-05-08-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, You are steering Hungary into a chasm, a livelihood crisis where we get a clearer picture of its true depth: according to the latest report by KSH, retail sales fell by 13.1 percent in March this year compared to the previous year. Thus, the real value of salaries and pensions has fallen so much in one year because of inflation in Orbán that Hungarian people can buy so much less of the most basic food. If you do not manage your own shopping, Mr. Secretary of State, you may not have an idea of the reality behind the propaganda in Orbán, I'll explain something: according to KSH data, the last retail sales fall of this magnitude was in April 2020. I'll help you: the decline was 12.4 percent, which was less than now due to inflation in Orbán. In addition, Covid was there in April 2020 when, in addition to curfew restrictions, people couldn't even enter the street, let alone buy a store, because of panic-like accumulation. These figures clearly show that you have simply abandoned the Hungarian people against inflation in Orbán. They have left themselves the most defenseless layers, including pensioners, as opposed to food-expensives, such as bread and dairy products, which have increased several times over. The Orbán government just watches that people are forced to buy less and less quality products in stores, while they are making hundreds of billions on extra VAT, on the 27 percent VAT on the European record, which they are not willing to reduce even for basic foods. So I ask Mr Secretary of State: when are you finally going to take action against inflation in Orbán, which is in the grip of Hungarians? Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Deputy Minister János Fónagy, Minister of State, responds. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is not the first time I have told you that the war in the neighbourhood and the sanctions that have been taken in response have brought economic crisis, war inflation, price increases and uncertainty all over Europe. The government's aim is to reduce sanctioned inflation to one-digit by the end of 23 years. We are on the right track, as indicated in advance, with inflation already peaked in January, and the decline started after the turn of the trend in January and February. Allow me a personal sentence within this short period of time: I go to Auchan twice a week to shop in Auchan, residential Auchan, thank God, it's full of customers, shelves are full of goods. Undoubtedly, prices are high, but they are falling, and we hope that they will fall into one digit by the end of the year. Our task is to protect families, pensioners, full employment and the reduction of rent. Congressman quoted KSH data, so allow me to do the same. According to KSH, the rise in actions continued in February 2023. Compared to 2010, wages increased 2.7 times, the gross amount of the minimum wage rose from 23 to 16 percent, to 232 thousand forints. This is well over three times the level of 73 500 HUF in 2010. The guaranteed minimum wage increased by 14 percent, also more than three times compared to 2010. At the same time as the minimum wage, and this is precisely known to be the case, higher-class wages have also increased steadily. So when you keep saying the shadows as shadow governments, allow me to refer to the lights as well. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dávid Ferenc.
u2023-05-08-127	Thank you so much for the opportunity. If the Secretary of State has made a personal remark, then I am also trying: I thought that Mr. Secretary of State went to CBA, Real or Coop, because these are Hungarian chains, by the way, only sign, and not Auchan. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Right!]] Your explanation tells me, by the way, that you still can't or want to understand how much trouble there is. Such a fall in retail sales cannot be explained by the usual canned lies, such as war inflation and the dexterity of stores. This fall in traffic is coupled with inflation three times as high as the EU average: real earnings, industrial production and housing are falling at the same time. This is an economic crisis that the Orbán government will not be able to handle because of it Hungarians live badly. The 13-point anti-inflationary package of the shadow government, such as the reduction of VAT on basic foods, could stop inflation in Orbán. The shadow government is Hungary's only hope, whether you like it or not [[Bence Rétvári: I don't like it!]] to make shopping affordable again for all Hungarians. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-129	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, That's what my poor mother would've said. If only the 13 points of the shadow government were hope for us. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] The current government has introduced the interest stop and the food stop. We have started setting up an online price monitoring system to prevent overpriced prices and increase price competition, thus reducing inflation. In addition, the latest measures require retail shops with significant revenue to launch weekly actions for 20 product types. I repeat, but I think it's not unnecessary for you. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] that the government, in the economic situation affected by war and sanctions, will do everything in its power to protect families, pensioners and the full employment that is very important to us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabó Szabolcs and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Ferenc Gelencsér's group leader. Here you go. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-05-08-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Prime Minister, you've had the baton pressed to your throat in an inhumane system when you stood up for the truth, you know exactly what it feels like. There's even a photo of it on the Internet. So what I would like to ask you is that you condemn the Hungarian police beating innocent young people with batons. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] and use tear gas against those who protest for justice, as you once did. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-05-08-132	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-05-08-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You can be a representative in the Hungarian Parliament if you take an oath. The oath is clear: the laws are observed and enforced by all. You do the opposite: you keep calling on people to stop following the law. In Hungary, it is possible to indicate, and it is often indicated. However, there are some things that cannot be done: there is no illegal entry into a building site, no damage to public buildings, and no policemen can be thrown at. Once again, I ask you to honor the oath of your representatives. [[A voice from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-134	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Ferenc Gelencsér, is the word. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-135	Unfortunately, the question has not been understood, I see. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Interventions from the ranks of the governing parties: Modestly! The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to ask you not to insult the students or the teachers who went out on the street because they do not want to study or teach under a law of vengeance in this country. So I'd like to ask you again if I can get an answer for a second run, and not just me, but hundreds of thousands of students and parents and teachers are waiting for an answer. [[Bence Rétvári: There are 100,000 teachers. There are no hundreds of thousands of teachers.]] Do you condemn the fact that the Hungarian police beat innocent young people with batons and use tear gas against those who once protested for the truth? Thank you. [[14.20]]
u2023-05-08-136	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I repeat: so I ask the parents, I ask the students, I ask the teachers, and I ask you to comply with the laws and express your disapproval and protest within the framework of the laws. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-08-138	Dear House, Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "Ongoing issues." Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-139	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, At the closing presentation of the conference on Conservative Political Action in Budapest, Minister Judit Varga said that Hungary is a place in the middle of Europe where freedom still lives, where one can express his opinion fearlessly on any matter. I ask myself: if our country really is such a place, why does the draft law on teacher status include the provision that teachers cannot express an opinion on the operation of the public education system? Furthermore, if our country is such a place, why can't you exercise your right to express your position in the form of civil disobedience, a recognised, established institution of civil democracy, and with which you used to live? At this conference, it has also been said by the Minister that we must endure, I mean for you, to have where to turn Europe's fate when the time comes. That is why I ask: is that why a draft law on the status of educator which is contrary to the agreement already reached between Hungary and the EU on this subject? Do the government and you, Prime Minister, think that, after the expected right-wing turn, the status of teachers will be regulated in the same way in other countries of Europe? And finally, you spoke there too, Prime Minister. Among other things, he claimed that Hungary is an incubator, where they are experimenting with the conservative policy of the future, and where they are not only talking about liberalism and defeating liberals, but also implementing it. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister: in this spirit, did the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, say that they wish to transform the teaching career into a profession? Between the two world wars, the Hungarian Catholic Church also promoted this, which was also implemented in the Italy of Mussolini in Europe. I look forward to your reply, Prime Minister, to my questions. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-08-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like the answer, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-05-08-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I agree with the quotes I gave you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] On the matter of professional order, we could also have an interesting intellectual debate on the difference between professionalism and a conservative state, if you have already made such a reference, but perhaps we have little time for that. The Hungarian government is committed so much that there are some professions in Hungary, which we call professionalism, and we think that professional professions need specific legislation. Such a profession is the work of health workers in Hungary, such is the case for law enforcement workers, and so is the case for soldiers. And we thought, but it's not a new idea, because, as we say, your first professional careers in a more modern language will not be introduced now in the case of teachers, but perhaps already in 13 or 14 we introduced it. So teachers are not now separated from the general legal category of civil servants, but we have done this much earlier, at the most not everyone has noticed. So what is new at the moment is not in the bill before us in this regard. We consider pedagogical work to be a profession, and we think that teachers deserve to have a law governing a separate career model. What should be the content, what should be included and what should not be, is what negotiations are about to take place. As they end, the bill arrives here, before this House, and we can discuss how we can create the best career law for teachers whose work is vital for Hungary. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-08-142	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-143	Thank you very much. Clearly speaking, Prime Minister, you obviously agree with your own words, not with your minister, then what I had to say was that we are right, and you disagree with that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Special logic.]] That's clear. The other, the professional order of business, is not intended for professional purposes, but only for the political, power purposes of the state, i.e. in this case, to maintain and complete the system of your national cooperation. If it were professional goals, for example, he would have kept his professional proposal that he would have linked the wage increase and the teachers' screening basis to the minimum wage at the time, i.e. as a public servant, you know very well that the wages could have been increased. To do so, we do not need to put in place a new working order; a wage increase would be 90 percent if Prime Minister had not withdrawn this voluntary promise. From now on, the priest, the teacher, the Archbishop will maintain and complete your system. Feel free to say, before the country and the right-wing voters, what the system of national cooperation is and what the Christian conservative system really is, what you desire and what you are building! Thank you very much.
u2023-05-08-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-05-08-145	My apologies to the congresswoman, I'm probably the one who misinterpreted the situation. You insist that you're right. Very well. It's not important for us to be right. We want to create a law that is good for Hungarian students in the first place, and second, it is good for Hungarian teachers. Who is right is secondary, but if we are talking about who is right, I would just like to mention to you that, compared to 2010, you have governed Hungary as a left-wing party. And speaking of who is right, I would like to remind all Hungarian teachers, parents and students that it was you who took a month's wages from them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-08-146	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Brenner Koloman and Mr László György Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Mr. László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, I have proposed two things in a proposal for a resolution, which I propose to your representatives, the 135 Fidesz Members, for their attention and acceptance. One was to cancel the mandatory registration of the Chambers of Commerce and Industry. This would be a good opportunity for the Chamber of László Parragh to show us what his true social and entrepreneurial support is. I would add that I am biased against entrepreneurs in this case, and I believe that they are Hungary's real reserves of power and that they can be built upon a successful, economically successful Hungary. The other thing I suggested was the otherwise irritating five thousand forints of chamber contributions, which must be paid to the Parragh Lászlós every year, and which the Chamber essentially accounts for by bringing a statement in bulk. And to convince you, I'll tell you what this has been spent on, for example, in recent years, and it's not even close to complete public interest data request. They bought a chatbot for 236 million forints, which no one has ever seen before. Prime Minister, if you have a smartphone, or maybe you do, you can buy a chatbot for about 20 euros, you don't have to spend 236 million forints on it. Well, he's also got a nice seat at the bar, because only the deposit we think is gonna cost him three months is 90 million forints. So you can imagine, Prime Minister, what kind of office and building are you renting with the money that entrepreneurs pay! For all conservatives, this is not normal, who think that entrepreneurs should receive something in return for their payment, knowing that the Chamber could not spend money on such nonsense, and in fact it is even more serious, because the chamber leader boasts that the Kata was essentially eliminated with his help. In fact, the questions are as follows, Prime Minister. Will the government support this initiative? Do you think it's fair that László Parragh spends his money on this? Can we count on Fidesz MEPs to help businesses to not just get credit, not just borrowing, but real help? A partnere in stop Parragh, stop industry? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-08-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I now give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-05-08-149	Although I know this is often written, my honourable fellow Member, but don't believe everything you write: the government can't do anything. For example, here's your request right away. The Chamber can't be ordered by us to pick, if so, how much membership fee, how much you use, and so on. [[14.30]] What we can do is answer the question that we need a chamber, and if there is a chamber, we need a mandatory membership. We have continued these debates over the past 30 years and have put them to rest in the last ten or so years. Our decision was that we needed a chamber, so we didn't support anti-bar voices. We have also come to the conclusion that compulsory chamber membership fees are also required. This has happened, it is part of the Hungarian legal system. To what extent the Chamber uses the membership fee it collects, only the democratically elected bodies of the Chamber can give an opinion on it. So even though you're addressing these questions to me, I can't and I don't want to answer them. I have recently discussed this issue with the President of the Chamber, together with several other questions. From the cooperation with the Chamber, I see that if there were no chamber and compulsory membership, then the Chamber would not be able to provide the Hungarian entrepreneurs with the help they can give today through the Hungarian government to advertise preferential loans to entrepreneurs in this very difficult, high-interest environment. Without the loans announced by the Chamber in the Széchenyi Card System, there would be no lending in Hungary today, so the work of the Chamber is considered by the government to be particularly positive and even indispensable. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-08-150	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. For a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-151	Mr. Prime Minister, I addressed it to you because the Members who sit behind you will listen to you, and this resolution proposal and, by the way, the law will have to be decided by them later. So you can convince them, and I trust that it's not convincing them that the only help they want to offer businesses is credit. Some businesses will not be able to take credit, and let's face it, an undertaking that can survive only on credit, for example, is not guaranteed that the increase that it is able to obtain will be used to catch wages in order to earn a living on European Union markets, for example, those businesses' fates are doomed to death. These businesses can't work like this. Credit alone is not a help. We need a complete help and a symbolic message, and the 5 thousand forints in this symbolic message. I know that when you look at it like that, business hurts very little 5 thousand forints, but it annoys them that they don't see any of it back, up to 236 million chatbots or otherwise a [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the possibility of a loan, which I'm not even sure they can take on. We are committed to ensuring that businesses use this to catch up on wages to do so in the European Union. It would be a mistake to lead Hungary out of the European Community as you plan to; wages are needed at European level, and businesses need direct help, not credit, Prime Minister. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-05-08-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-153	Dear fellow Member, The picture is that you do not really agree with the current leadership of the Chamber, but do not want a Chamber. In my view, anti-Camarism in such an economic situation is of no benefit to businesses. So I would like to stand very clearly in favour of having a chamber in Hungary, the Chamber bringing entrepreneurs together and proposing to the government what economic policy we should pursue. This is what we need, and it is not ineffective on the part of the Chamber. I would like to offer you one piece of information: in 2009 it was in 2009! that if there was a 10 thousand forints wage increase, the employee had 2800 forints left. As a result of the new tax system developed jointly with the Chamber, in 2022, 6400 of those who received a 10 thousand HUF wage increase remained with the employee. Previously, 2,800, now 6,400, is how I measure the chamber's effectiveness. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-08-154	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Congressman István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:, After one million, will they trick another half a million? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Menczer has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I respectfully ask, do you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2023-05-08-155	Yes, thank you, I accept.
u2023-05-08-156	Thank you very much. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In October 2021, Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, even ahead of the Prime Minister, reported that they had fulfilled their election promise before 2010 and had created a million new jobs in ten years. We have looked into the fact that since 2010, one million new jobs have been created and that the government has managed to bring this together. Five points: 1. According to KSH data, the number of employees in Hungary increased by 729 thousand by 2020 and 822,000 by 2022, along with the vacant posts, 763 thousand jobs were created in 10 years, and 884 thousand new jobs were created in 12 years, including data from the 15-74-year-old population. 2. Of this, the number of public workers increased by 89 thousand and the number of Hungarians working abroad increased by 49 thousand. 3. Due to the gradual increase in retirement age and the tightening of early retirement age, 282,000 people in the 55-64 age group and 78 thousand in the 65 age group, for example, are working more than in 2010. 4. It has contributed to the fact that in 2011, 249 thousand people were returned to the labour market by tightening the use of disability pensions. 5. Due to the reduction of the age limit for compulsory education, 15 000 more young people in the 15-19-year-old population were on the labour market, and many of them do not have eight generals. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State's reply that they continue to insist on government propaganda, given that the one million new jobs on paper were created only with the greatest goodwill. In the 20-54 age group, there are only 390,000 people working compared to 2010, including former disability pensioners, or [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the additional increase is due to the pressure of under 18 and retired age groups to work. Thank you.
u2023-05-08-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-08-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, if you'll allow me to make an observation, and although you didn't ask, I would advise you unsolicitedly. As I understand it, you define yourself as a national radical party, and at times, for example, you say the same thing that Ferenc Gyurcsány left, which Ferenc Gyurcsány put in a pen to the left. I do not suggest that you step on this path, because if you go this way, you will suddenly find yourself turning the national radical party into a left-wing dwarf party. And their leaders sit next to Peter Jakab, who had a good memory and a winey look, who once played clown in the Prime Minister's seat, but then reality turned on the light, and it turned out that whoever follows Ferenc Gyurcsány may not sit there, but on the rooster, if there is still room and let him. So I'm not suggesting you follow this path. As far as jobs are concerned, honourable Member, the formula is simple: politics is an experiential genre. The left has destroyed jobs, created by the Orbán government. You can choose from these two; I suggest that the choice be wise and prudent. And if I've been paying close attention to his numbers, I've been trying really hard, and you're actually putting it there that we're expecting his kindness somewhere around 900 thousand and a million, because he said that we can assume that there's a number of jobs created here somewhere. I'm asking you to appreciate the government's performance. And perhaps so much here in the last half minute, just to be clear, the country was bankrupt in 2010; unemployment was 11-12 percent; many families had no job, no income; the future was unpredictable; existentiality, if any, was unpredictable. Compared to this, the question now is which priority is given to unemployment in the EU ranking, and what is actually the issue of unemployment? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] is more of a labour shortage problem. I'll get to that in my next answer. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-08-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman István Szabadi. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer because, according to the Prime Minister, 10 thousand and 100,000 Hungarians can earn their living at a million new jobs. Yeah, but what about the rest? So you want to fill the other jobs with foreign workers? And by the way, what you guys used to say is that there's close to full employment. Why, then, do they support hundreds of billions of foreign multinationals just to increase GDP and lure them into our country with their investments? [[14.40]] You're following the Gyurcsány road in handing out free money to multinationals, because you're even surpassing the Balliberal governments in giving out free money. The Prime Minister announced in March that a half million people are needed for the construction of factories. The lack of labour force cannot be secured by the domestic labour market, but this has already been seen in many ways, so guest workers are mainly brought from Asia. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-08-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Tamás Menczer is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-163	Honourable Congressman, With all due respect, don't confuse me. At first, he said the problem was that there were too many unemployed people. Now you're telling me there's too little work to do. I don't follow. I understand that my abilities are limited, and I accept that with due respect, but it is a matter of finding a contradiction in what you have said. So the point is that the Orbán government created 1 million jobs, as it did. We dropped unemployment from 11 to 12 percent to below 4 percent, and we continue to make investments. They don't get free money, we're in a race, and we're gonna make it. These investments come to Hungary because they find a more favourable environment and decent, honest, hardworking workforce. The investments will be provided with labour, there is still some reserve in Hungary, there is also a reserve in the outside, and we will solve everything on this. And GDP growth, which you have just mentioned in parentheses, is relatively important. Please don't talk us out of doing everything we can to increase GDP in the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Sándor Berki, the representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Energy an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Berki has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Despite my request, the State MVM has not yet dared to tell me how the number of households over 60 days of debt has changed in recent years. Obviously, they're not hiding it because it's getting better, but the data that they finally published is alarming enough. At the end of March this year, nearly 88,000 households had over 60 days of electricity billing, and 61 thousand people owe gas bill after sixty days. Energy poverty: I would like to highlight this word. But there's still some very strong data coming in. We also know from a European survey that more than 8,000 children are raised in households with no wired electricity at all. In these families, candles are lit in the evenings, in Hungary, the XXI. In the 14th century, in the year of your government. I trust, though it was such an answer that I did not get a left in the answer and we did not go back in time, my question would be: what does the government do for people who live in energy poverty? As a new Member, I ask you to honor me in your reply by not confusing me with the previous governments, with the past, with no one, but, at the moment, by answering what these people can expect from your government. What we had, we did. We started a campaign with the Light Bringers Foundation, who use solar panels to help the poor have lights. That's all we could do, and I'm asking what people can expect from you. Thank you for your answer.
u2023-05-08-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Lantos. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. Then I can tell right away that we're all on the same platform. As you say, he's new in this house, well, so am I. So let's give each other the chance to talk about this in a civilized tone. Those numbers you said, the 8,000 kids, it's obviously unfortunate if it's true. I don't know if you're right about what statement you quoted. Obviously, every child has a problem living without a lamp, but obviously the community, the family, has to do what is expected of him. The government is doing what it's doing to keep the rent cut alive. He's gonna keep her alive right now, and he's gonna keep her alive. The price of electricity and gas are also the cheapest in Hungary. Nevertheless, there are debt collectors, not only families, but also businesses, of course. The ultimate tool is when, if you like, the service provider threatens to disable it. This is the ultimate instrument, and he has repeatedly called on everyone. Otherwise, the proportion of consumers actually turned off is small compared to those called on to do so. In any case, the reduction in overhead costs is by far the lowest prices in Hungary today in a European comparison. 2.5 percent for an average household to pay for an energy bill. If you look at any Eurostat statistics, you can see that the government is doing everything in Hungary for families. I think that in this respect, the amounts are affordable, a maximum of HUF 7,700 per month, which is payable for electricity at an average consumption, but those who are poor obviously consume much less. And what you have to pay for gas is also an affordable amount. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-168	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Sándor Berki. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-169	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I understand that we are thinking in a work-based society, and in reducing the costs, they are thinking of the people who have the right income. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is also present today because I would like to ask him to remember where he came from. You've been to North-East Hungary a lot, which I'm sure you remember, and there are the same situations there today. Unfortunately, there are still families, people who need more and more social assistance today. I ask the Government of Hungary to take this into account, and with a little more social sensitivity and a little more investment desire, even job creation, to turn to North-East Hungary, and then I think that we will be able to reach these data there. In the meantime, I have to say that each child and every family that lives in energy poverty are many. Thank you.
u2023-05-08-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is a matter for the Minister. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, one thing we agree on: I am also glad that the Prime Minister is here. So we agree on that, too. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] I'd like to quote two facts. According to Eurostat data, between 2015 and 2021, the proportion of people living in severe material and social deprivation in Hungary decreased by nearly 60 percent more than the EU average. Another Eurostat figure: the proportion of people under the age of 18 at risk of poverty or social exclusion has fallen below the EU average. The EU average is 21 per cent, and it dropped to 17.7 per cent from more than double in 2010, when it was 38.7 per cent. I think they speak for themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-172	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-173	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, There's a horse you're really getting on, and you're trying to ride it. I'm talking about the main government policy here. The main government policy in Hungary today is to turn Hungary into a battery company. Although it could have been chosen to build a knowledge-based economy, invest in education, possibly increase the wages of teachers, they did not choose this path, but they want to make Hungary a large assembly plant, which exploits both human resources and our natural resources. In fact, this is the sure recipe for staying trapped in the medium-developed countries, or this life on the half-periphery, and it looks like we're staying here. This government policy is incomprehensible when we are in the middle of the water crisis and the climate crisis. These battery companies are eating the water supply. [[14.50]] This policy is incomprehensible, when we are also in the middle of the energy crisis, these plants also consume our energy, and at that time we did not even talk about land. The question is, to whom this is worth it, but a few days ago news came to light, and now we know who it is worth it: it is worth it to the foreign workers, the migrant workers, because it turns out that in their interest they expect tens of thousands to come to Hungary, they will work in these factories. Of course, we could also ask why they are not expecting, let's say, the hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians who have moved abroad, why not try to lure them home. Maybe the battery companies aren't attractive enough for them, and if they turn Hungary into a battery ring, won't these young people come home? So, Prime Minister, I feel that we see that this policy is bleeding from a lot of wounds. It seems a little like this horse is dead, and if anyone's dead, then you must know what to do when you meet a dead horse. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-08-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-05-08-175	Speaking of electric cars, my fellow Member, you can think of a lot of things, but the dead horse is the least of them, and they look pretty jolly. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] All of Europe is building electric cars. I understand that if you see me, you'll be thinking about battery production, and I'll have to live with that now, I see. (Faintness.) But it's not that bad, because although the whole thing seems primitive, it actually contains a lot of interesting and complicated questions. Two minutes is not enough to explain them, I would just like to make it clear to you that Hungarian battery plants are well thought-out industrial policy decisions in all dimensions. There's an environmental aspect here. I would like to make it clear that the strictest European standards are in place in Hungary; no factory can be built, not even a factory producing horseshoe, let alone an electric car factory or a battery plant that does not meet the strictest environmental standards, even above the German level. Everyone can be calm in Hungary, if a factory is built in his area, environmental regulations will be respected there. There's a water management issue. Hungary is extremely rich in water, and I have never understood the concerns about this. Our problem isn't that we don't have water, our problem is that more water goes out of the country than it does. So we have plenty of water, we have to work on how to keep all that water so that we can use it in the Hungarian economy afterwards. And finally, there is a labour issue that you are pushing: who will work in the new Hungarian factories? The situation is quite clear, because the government has a decision on this: Hungarians are entitled to all jobs in the first place, Hungarians in Hungary. In the second place, the neighboring peoples, and in the third situation, when they are all gone, can only be brought labour from abroad. We have a decision: you can never bring in more workers than there are vacant posts in Hungary, so Hungarian workers can feel safe too. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-176	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-177	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I think that even at this point, the lack of a minister or independent Minister for the Environment responsible for environmental protection in the government is going to fail. [[Uproar, clarity, and interrogation from the pro-government ranks, among them: Sitting there! Csaba Lantos Lajos raises his hand.]] I think, then, that on water management issues, Hungary's water supply, you might be able to provide additional information at government meetings. What you said may have been true twenty or thirty years ago, but unfortunately the climate crisis and the water crisis have changed this situation since then. I understand that you are not thinking in horseshoes then, but in electric cars, but this is a fairly broad value chain, if you look at it in industrial policy terms. Why is it that you want to check in to the end of this value chain, which is really assembly, this is the most exploitative and cheapest form of this value chain. Why not, let's say, try to check in at the beginning and compete there, which obviously requires added knowledge: innovation, this knowledge capital, this education, for example, the teacher's wage increase, so this is a completely different way. So why grab the end, why don't you check the front? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2023-05-08-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-179	I think that we are facing a lack of knowledge, so it is not malice, it is simply a lack of knowledge. So, first of all, the average salary of the workers working in the battery companies is 60 percent higher than the average salary of the workers working in the manufacturing industry, so let's start from here. So you're talking about high wages. The second thing worth paying attention to is that they build battery factories all over Europe, everywhere. Your comrade, Commissioner Timmermans, is also Comrade-sir. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] All he does is promote battery companies. The third thing worth paying attention to is that the history of the production industry in Hungary shows that first production units are created, then research centres are created, then development centres are created, and thus we can achieve, as you say, the higher value chain. You can't check in on the top. The secret to this is that first you need a skilled worker, then you need a teacher as a university teacher: when you enroll, you're not professors, you start as a student, you learn it, and you go forward. That's true in industry, too. Look at the car industry. We now have automotive research centres in Hungary because we can make cars. They don't take a research center where they can't even make it. I don't think it's that complicated. It just takes a little patience and maturity. Thank you very much. [[Defiance and applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-180	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Puppet play in the capital?" It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Panyi was entitled to answer. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Today in Budapest we have the right to ask where the red is, where the red is; here is the money, where the money is. We've been getting used to the fact that, in recent decades, when the capital's leadership turns red, the money always disappears. Gergely Christmas has succeeded in achieving what no one has ever achieved: in three and a half years she has bankrupted the capital. Since he is unfit to lead the capital, he is now engaged in attacking the government without any foundation. Why would he do that? The answer is very simple and clear: his boss Ferenc Gyurcsány instructed him to do so. Ferenc Gyurcsány issues the line, and Gergely Christmas meets this line, my fellow Members, these are the rules of puppetry. That's how the division of labor takes place around the dollar-left house. The Mayor recently announced in his recent monologue that he would not pay the solidarity tax to help poorer municipalities. The reason is that Gergely Christmas would like to become mayor candidate in 2024. Therefore, he does so by nodding the assigned tasks in order. His master therefore praised him, so he said in an interview he gave, and I quote: What Gregory Christmas thinks of the world can be inserted into what we think of the world. Gergely Christmas also fulfills the tasks assigned to him because Ferenc Gyurcsány made it clear that if Gergely Christmas does not bring the capital into the fight against the government, they will find another candidate for mayor, as the players of the puppet game can be replaced at any time. Now the latest, which may cause some headaches for Gergely Christmas, is that they ran out of István Tarlós' money, but that's always the case, the left is always running out of money. There was a cool spot of 214 billion forints. Still, tax revenues have increased, yet where has the money of the Budapesters gone? ! With all due respect, Mr. Secretary of State, how long can this go on, what can the head of the capital afford you? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-08-182	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Panyi. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2023-05-08-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Congresswoman! It seems to be a recurring left-wing tradition that, after three and a half or four years, the left is forced to bankrupt the one whose leadership was entrusted to him. Ferenc Gyurcsány did this to Hungary in 2006 and Gergely Christmas does this to Budapest in 2023. The pattern, the recipe is the same: there is a country or city with a high quality, stable finances, the left takes over, and then in a few years, everything that can be destroyed, and then comes bankruptcy, austerity, tax increases. In 2002 Hungary was the best-performing EU candidate country in the Czech Republic, then Ferenc Gyurcsány came and by 2010 we became the hosts. While the countries of the region have gone by our side in every indicator, the government led by Gyurcsány has gone bankrupt, economic growth has stopped, unemployment has come, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are being robbed of foreign currency loans. The same is happening in the capital now. In 2019 Budapest was an excellent city with stable finances. Gergely Christmas came and today, three and a half years later, we have to talk about bankruptcy, the reserves are running out, the tax revenues are running out, most of them are being spent on filling up Gyurcsány's people. As a reminder, Congresswoman also mentioned the financial reserves: in 2019 Gergely Christmas took over the city with a HUF 214 billion reserve. It's gone for the day. Where's the money? Meanwhile, tax revenues have increased radically, over the past four years more than HUF 200 billion of business taxes have been introduced into the capital's cash register than in the last four years of István Tarlós. Last year alone, this tax revenue increased by HUF 75 billion. Despite all this, Gergely Christmas was a bankruptcy today, and besides following the Gyurcsány pattern, this left-wing recipe and this is unacceptable, and now the implementation of the Gyurcsányi instruction follows. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-08-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-185	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I accept the Secretary of State's answer, but I still cannot accept that in three and a half years, 214 billion forints were abducted in the capital city. I still cannot accept that the Metropolitan Municipality, the head of the capital, mayor Gergely Karácsony does not work for the people of Budapest, not for the people living here, not for the developments in Budapest and for the improvement of Budapest, but instead points back and blames everyone for their own incompetence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-08-186	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-187	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I finished my previous speech: so now we will execute the order of Gyurcsány. [[Agnes Kunhalmi laughs.]] Your boss, honourable Member, recently spoke about the fact that Gregory Christmas had to fight the capital against the government in a radio interview that was almost autumn. This is exactly what is happening right now: Ferenc Gyurcsány sent a message, and Gergely Christmas executes it. Gergely Christmas attacks the government for her own incompetence and inability, for wasting the city's reserves and tax revenues. In addition to the economic bankruptcy that Gergely Christmas announced, what is happening is that he will deliver the city to Ferenc Gyurcsány and his political interests. And this is unacceptable. But we know from the administration of the left between 2002 and 2010 and from the autumn speech that they are not the Hungarian citizens, but the preservation or acquisition of power is their first priority. This is unacceptable and unworthy of Budapest. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-08-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: what does the fate of EU funds to Hungary really depend on? It's an address. Mr. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Madam Secretary, We can see that the pressure of the pro-wars is increasing on our country. This is what we are experiencing when the American ambassador now considers it his task to repeat the pro-war voices of the American left from week to week, or we are experiencing it when they want to make EU funds for our country part of pro-war blackmail. This is what the leader of the dollar left, Ferenc Gyurcsány, spoke about when he made it clear that they were working to keep these sources from arriving. But since he's a europeer politician, he said it should be put in a legal robe. His party partner no longer made up his mind, he didn't even need a legal robe, he simply said that it was a patriotic obligation to hold back EU funds. Daniel Freund, a serialist MEP, joined this pro-war choir against Hungary, when he heard from the Prime Minister that Hungary refused to change its position, is still that no migration, no gender, no war. He immediately responded and wrote that there would then be no EU-money, i.e. no EU funds. Of course, many may recall the scene of the movie Witness when the testimony is confused with the text of the judgment. So the situation is that the US left, the serialist NGOs, the full dollar left and the leftist European Parliament all demand that Brussels bureaucrats, specifically the Commission, abuse their power, disregard EU legislation and do not give up the funds due to Hungary on a political basis, just because we dare to stand on the side of peace. Madam Secretary, my question is that what Daniel Freund described would indeed be a judgment, or something can be done about blackmail. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-08-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Judit Varga. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2023-05-08-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, His question came to mind an old saying; I always knew it, but I didn't know it. I have been a member of the national defence team for nearly five years, which defends its country against the national jihad that has launched against our country. It has always been clear to me that these rule of law procedures are essentially political attacks, a political witch hunt against our country. It was always clear to me that the pencil was held in Brussels by a Hungarian hand and a Hungarian left hand, and it was clear that the creativity of the domestic and international Balliberal opposition was behind the new demands in Brussels. Therefore, I was not surprised at all when I listened to Ferenc Gyurcsány's confession on the radio. However, the fact is, honourable Member, that Hungary has succeeded in achieving what it has undertaken in the face of the largest domestic and the largest international opposition. [[Miklós Dawn: You are heroes! Miklós Soltész: What you're doing is a clown! The president's ringing the bell.]] Because the Hungarian government is working on it every day, and here I thank you very much for the many dozen administrative professionals who have led us here for several months of persistent work, in the interests of the Hungarian people, we work every day to give the Hungarian people access to the source that they rightly deserve. The judicial package has been specifically consulted for several weeks, we have also consulted civil society organisations, professional organisations and civil society organisations requested by Brussels, we have organised a long series of personal consultations, the final text has been discussed with the European Commission up to point, point, comma level, and I submitted it to Parliament on their green signal, which was voted by the Hungarian Parliament last Wednesday with great support. In this way Hungary has also fulfilled its commitments on justice. We know that there was the 17 infinite commitments of conditioning, which we also did, and now we're okay with justice. Brussels should therefore pay these funds in the near future. So, honourable Member, the pay of teachers' wages and the support of small businesses are in the hands of Brussels. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-08-192	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman István Hollik. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Thank you for your answer, Minister. We agree that we have learned that when Brussels talks about the rule of law, it actually means that we should submit and change our policy on migration, on child protection, and that they mean that we should give up our pro-peace position. The question also arises as to whether it is possible to talk about the rule of law, legal certainty, compliance with rules or even democratic fundamental values where Ferenc Gyurcsány's view that the punishment of Hungary should be put in a legal robe is an unwarranted soft position, as the pro-war majority would not even bother with appearances, as we see in Daniel Freund's case. [[15.10]] So, in any other way, did you remain in the Union with anything to suggest respect for and compliance with the law when more and more people openly impose political conditions and use the funds we have to pay for pro-war blackmail? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Minister of Justice Judit Varga. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2023-05-08-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Of course, Hungary has fulfilled the commitments, there is no obstacle to paying the money, but let us put this in a slightly different perspective. A successful visit to the Pope, a successful CPAC for Hungary is a huge religious and political international recognition. Our domestic and foreign Balliberal opposition must have experienced very difficult days and hours, and then, as the Belgian would say, en plus the justice package has been successfully submitted and completed. So I have only one message left for the left: it is not a patriotic act, if we are working in the morning, night and evening on how to prevent the Hungarian people from getting the resources they deserve. Learn to love the Hungarian man and their country more than they hate their own government, it is never too late to begin! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-196	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 3:11 p.m., and that concludes the hour of immediate questioning, and that concludes the discussion of today's agendas. We are now taking a two-minute technical break in order to allow all my fellow Members who leave the Chamber in their urgent official affairs to do so without delay and quietly, because then there will be speeches after the agenda. (Sunning: 15.12.15.14) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2023-05-08-197	Dear House, Fellow Members! It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congressman Bence Rétvári of KDNP applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll wait for him to put his microphone on. Thank you very much. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-05-08-198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the fact that, in recent years, there have been many problems both with the world's coronal virus epidemic and with the rising energy prices and the increase in sanctions, penalty inflation, the government has tried to offer all possible development opportunities and give them to both Vác and the Danube bend. A few days ago, we handed over the Bishop'sVác centre, which is a very significant part of the tourist development in Vác, and it continues, as the interior renovation of the Cathedral will soon be completed, which represents a hundreds of years of work for the restorers after hundreds of years of corrosion, but still brings one of Vác's most beautiful monuments back to its old light. One billion HUF 95 million came in support of Vác and nearby businesses. A special program was launched for microenterprises with Pest county support from 306 million forints, and new companies were established here, whether Japanese, Chinese or Korean companies appeared in and around Vácon. The renovation of the Váci Police Department was also completed with 321 million HUF government support. The fire department's building was renewed with 122 million HUF support. You can't recognize any of them from the outside, not the police, not the fire department. The intensive department of the hospital has also been modernised, the kitchen section has been renovated, the buildings that were previously there but no longer used have been demolished, and we can soon start, trusting that the outpatient clinic will also be renovated from the government's pre-funded RRF sources. The renovation of the Piarist school can begin in weeks, with the first phase of 120 million HUF government support. The solar system of Madách High School was built from 52 million forints. In the Földváry School, the renovation of windows and toilets from 72 million forints, in the Radnóti School the renovation of windows from 50 million forints, in Bartók-Pikethy school, is also a renewal of roof construction from 60 million forints. But there was also a school renovation in the surrounding settlements: Galgagyörk, Bishophatvan and Vámosmikola. In Sokolya, a new kindergarten and nursery was built, eye-catching, I think, one of the most beautiful public buildings of the Danube bend. Marianostrán's kindergarten renovation, a new nursery was made in Sződliget, Guardian. In addition, the development of DMRV in the field of waste water treatment is also taking place with a HUF 5 billion grant. For kindergarten and kitchen development TOP_Plusz energy source received 239 million HUF support. Last year and this year, the city received 23 million plus 45 million HUF for swimming. In addition, Vác received HUF 237 million from the government for the payment of the overhead costs. The government also provided HUF 200 million in support of the renovation of the Kölcsey Street kindergarten and the kindergarten on Sirály Street, the Újhegyi út tagovoda, and a civil information centre could also be established. If you look at the surrounding settlements, the renovation of the village house, the renovation of the cultural house, four settlements Verőce, Püspökszilágy, Kemence, Ipolydamásd received 135 million forints; seven settlements received 291 million forints for road construction; four settlements received HUF 51 million for communication equipment from the Hungarian village. The surrounding settlements received 13 million HUF for the community organisation of the church and 18 million HUF for the community organisation of the local government. There's also money for a cemetery renovation. In total, 597 million HUF arrived at five settlements. The bridge in Ipolydámásd is now about to be handed over, connecting Hungarians from here and across borders, as well as tourism and economic development will be an important part of the construction of a new Ipoly bridge between Hungary and Slovakia. Six settlements for TOP_Plusz road renovation, 951 million forints, four settlements for the renovation of a health institution, 935 million forints, seven for tourist development, seven forints of HUF 1 billion 739 million, and a very important HUF 1 billion 240 million for energy modernisation. More settlements in the area received HUF 1 billion 580 million for the development of a mini-cradle. He received 300 million HUF for building a kindergarten gymnasium in Kismaros. In the project, 13 settlements received HUF 2 billion 955 million for complex development through the community park, starting from the drainage of precipitation water. This means that only last year, HUF 10 billion of development resources arrived in Vác and its region, with no resources from the EU coming to Hungary. We have also presented one of Vác's new prides, the Memento Mori film, which is known worldwide, and we hope to present the story of even more well-known Vác mummies in the form of a very exciting feature film. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, vice-president of the National Assembly, applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-200	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Nearly 40 of our countrymen die every day because they do not move regularly. We talk a lot about the state of the health care system in Hungary, which we are doing very well. At the same time, it must be added that our own lifestyle is twice as important to our health as the supply system itself, but there is no strategy for this to be done by the Hungarian government. But statistics, data, are extremely sad about our country. In avoidable deaths, we have the second worst indicator, and 3.1 million of our countrymen suffer from blood pressure. Their share of ten thousand has increased by 81 percent over the last 20 years. But it can also be said that the three main deaths in Hungary are related to the way of life. [[15.20]] Yet, two thirds of the population consider their health to be good or very good, so the population is not even aware of the extent to which their health problems are related, their difficulties with their way of life. And indeed, if we could live up to the expectations of nutrition and exercise, the proportion of diabetic diseases would be reduced by 58 percent, but one third of cancers and 80 percent of coronary artery problems could be prevented. Let us pause for a moment and think about this: we can reduce these extremely serious health problems if there is a change in diet and exercise alone. But speaking of exercise, we are Europe's most obese or second most obese nation. According to the Eurobarometer survey, 59 percent of the population say they never play sports. If we add those who play sports very rarely to this, then it can be said that three out of four people are either never or very rarely sports in Hungary. The Covid closures have obviously exacerbated this situation. According to surveys, the rate of snacking increased by 68 percent, and 54 percent said that they spent less time on sports, and the average weight of Hungarians increased by 4-5 kilograms during that time. A very serious problem is that despite the introduction of daily physical education, the proportion of overweight people is also increasing among young people. In NAT, the recreational port, as such, doesn't appear anyway. But we are not in a better position if we look at smoking and look at these data. In Hungary, a quarter of the population smokes on a daily basis. The EU average is below 20 per cent. So if this were to be achieved at least, it would also mean that 600,000 of our compatriots would quit smoking, who now smokes on a daily basis. If this money, which they are now spending on cigarettes, were to be spent on a swimming pool ticket, the health of the population would be greatly improved. So what we're talking about here, at least in their case, is that it's not a question of money, it's a question of awareness that they're spending those sought-after forints on cigarettes or swimming tickets. Alcoholism should also be mentioned, since the estimated proportion of alcoholics in Hungary is also showing an increasing trend. In five years, their numbers grew by 40,000. This is also clearly linked to the Covid closures and the periods that people had to spend in this way. Fidesz has been ruling Hungary by two thirds for 13 years, and all of these indicators are in a worse position, and the Hungarian population is in a worse position with regard to these indicators, yet nothing has happened. To date, no strategy has been put in place by the government to remedy these issues, although this would have obvious benefits: on the one hand, healthier people in the labour market could perform better, this would also bring economic benefits, it would obviously have moral benefits, and it would even have political benefits for the government. So Mi Hazank expects the government to create a comprehensive health strategy to improve the health of the Hungarian population. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-08-201	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Peter James applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2023-05-08-202	Thank you for the floor. My fellow Members, let's not get into this mess, shall we? I'm asking you to tell us that you're not representing the people here, you're representing yourself. It's the truth. The truth is, you're perfectly fine with what's going on right now. Well, look, they're sitting here in Parliament, mostly not coming in, and we've got a million-dollar paycheck until 2026. Dream job! Of course they don't want a new choice. In the end, the people here would throw you out, and they deserve it, because in exchange for this money, so far they've achieved about as much as they're about to bankrupt the whole country, but the people are sure. Yes, fellow Members, you have a good job here and a good salary, and the people have none. You're going to the loo with a luxury machine. And people back home are doing math on what to pay for, the food or the rent. That is the case, fellow Members, and it is wrong to say this, but the interest of the politician is quite different from that of the people. It is in your interest to have a new seat as soon as possible, and it is in the public's interest to have a new election as soon as possible, because it can no longer stand neither poverty, nor price, nor corruption, nor the waiting list, nor the fact that it is constantly seen as an idiot. Sanctuation gas and war inflation, of course. At the Romanian MOL station, the 95 is a hundred bucks cheaper than home! What are you talking about? If there's war inflation here, it's not the Russian-Ukrainian war, it's the Orbán-Brussels war that's been going on for 13 years, and we're losing. We should put the gun down, fellow Members. We shouldn't steal any more! I know you think that anything can be done to the Hungarian people, because it will tolerate everything. But believe me, anger is already there. It's in the store when you see what it costs. It's on the kitchen table where the pensioner is counting whether he can afford the rent; it's at the hospital where you wait half a day to be treated in the E.R. People are angry, fellow Members. Some people say they're suppressed, but sooner or later, they're gonna explode. Now the people are murmuring, but I am among them, I hear what they say: I work from sight to blindness, and I don't go from one to two. That's not fair. I've worked more than 40 years and I'm not getting out of my pension. That's not fair! I'm paying for the social security, but if I get sick, I'm gonna have to go to a private doctor to get treatment. That's not fair! People are tense, fellow Members. They're nervous, they're irritable, they're angry, they're angry at each other all the time: the patient is the doctor, the customer is the seller, the passenger is the driver, but soon they'll be mad at you, they'll be mad at you. So what are they gonna do? A lot of people are already talking about Romania, you know that, right? Well, don't wait for him. Don't fight your own people. Accept the demands of the People's Party Movement: let there be a new election in Hungary! Give the people the opportunity to express their views on your governance peacefully, freely, democratically, otherwise they will say it differently. Be reasonable, fellow Members, be reasonable. Lose the wheel! Let the people win! Justice for the Hungarians!
u2023-05-08-203	From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the notary of Parliament, has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-204	Mr President, Dear House, In connection with one of the most disgusting attacks in Hungary, we need to browse the Executive Chamber's website. There, an annual summary shows that the number of evictions has been well above 23,000 since 2010, the number of events where families are dropped off without accommodation, often with multiple children on the street. We also see that the winter moratorium, which has been ordered in order every year, has now ended on 30 April, and that this government has not created any kind of safety net, in order to help families who are now in an incredibly difficult situation in the middle of a crisis period and who are in difficulties of redemption. We see that the number of people evicted is likely to multiply compared to the previous one, because there are fewer and fewer apartments in the local government, and there are a lot of bled-out municipalities from which the government is forced to withdraw funds several times to raise rents or to carry out rents that will again appear as debt and payment difficulties on the other side. However, the most repulsive thing about the whole process is that a 200 000-dollar utility debt with interest rates and such executive fees can increase to over half a million in seconds, and in the event of a debt of over 500 thousand forints, the debtor's apartment or house can be auctioned. So the gap between reality and the reality of the executioners is quite amazing. I've proposed and I'm proposing that, under a million-dollar debt, it should not be mentioned that someone's apartment or property is being moved. We understand that there are social situations that are of opinion: whether or not the person could pay, but there must be a conciliation mechanism, whether it is a buffer, a safety net that can prevent the loss of the home, or even a change in the rules of family bankruptcy protection, so that the large majority of Hungarian families and those in distress do not consider it a debt slavery, but dare turn there for help. We also see that in brutally many foreclosures, the pro-government always reassures us that this is also a kind of market, if one cannot or does not pay, then, of course, he loses his home, but at least at the value of his property. It never made me feel better. It didn't make me feel comfortable. [[15.30]] But on Szeged.hu there was a very interesting analysis on the subject in January, where it was found that since last year's moratorium some 40 properties were auctioned daily, a valid offer was offered for a total of 6300 properties, and interestingly, the total value of the real estate amounted to HUF 64 billion, so the average price barely exceeded HUF 10 million. So, in contrast to the pro-government soothing, which was about the fact that, here, family houses will be taken by anyone after the auction, and then at least the family will be able to pay off their debt and start a new life, unfortunately, it's settled in the statistics. We see that they continue to take families' homes at a fraction price, not taking into account market conditions, in an organised manner, without a safety net and any kind of buffer, not always validating the protection of children. So that's very rude. Overall, in addition to the reordering of the eviction moratorium, we demand that a person's property cannot be auctioned for a debt of between HUF 200 and 300 thousand. We also demand that if the catastrophic situation does turn into an auction, this should not happen to the house, in a way below the value of the apartment, with any striped system, with any online or digital tricks, to turn the families that are already in trouble out of their remaining assets. I would consider it very important to adapt the rules of family bankruptcy so that a family does not have to ask for permission from some kind of bankruptcy worker in the event of a child's education, a health service, a forced private service, or a few expenses of HUF 10 thousand. So there should be some free space for the family concerned, besides, of course, receiving help and, at the end of the process, getting the right to walk away. Walk away solutions are not unknown at all. If a person adheres to the rules of family bankruptcy protection, then he can leave as a free man, because starting a life from zero in today's Hungary and rebuilding a life, it is still a science fiction, and he still paints an amazing postapocalyptic picture for us, if one starts with millions of minuses, then this mission is almost impossible. Every person in Hungary, every person who has good faith and wants to move forward counts, and therefore the community of Jobbik-Conservatives demands this package for their benefit. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-08-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear House, Fellow Members! After the agenda, Mr János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-206	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Whoever follows the events of the last year sees that the Hungarian agricultural world and the countryside are boiled, and the agricultural sector is facing huge problems. This is partly due to the dubious Ukrainian cereals that have flown into the country, thanks to the Fidesz-near traders who have poured this into the neck of the producers, and thanks to the profit of these traders, prices have gone and, at a normal price, no quality feed can be obtained despite cheap Ukrainian grain. Why am I saying this? A lot of farmers came to me, especially keepers, about the problems they struggle with, struggle for daily livelihoods, and here there are no personal complaints, there are sectoral problems. People who have worked, many of them over sixty, tell us problems, problems that threaten their families and their future, along with the Hungarian countryside, because it is important to note that the Hungarian countryside can only be kept together with agriculture. There is only one way out for the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian agriculture and the processing industry based on Hungarian agriculture, because Hungarian history has proved it, and the history of the last thirty years has proved in particular that despite our longing for foreign industrial multinationals, these multinationals will not help the Hungarian countryside, they will only create large industrial centers, where the hardworking people living in the countryside can work as simple wage slaves. Why am I saying this? In 2010 and before 2010, you promised the Hungarian countryside that Fidesz would be a party to the countryside, that it would raise the Hungarian countryside and bring prosperity, that it would bring prosperity that I have just said, building on the agricultural industry. What kind of promises did they make? Processing plants. What did they get instead? Land speculators. They promised to sell her crop into her skin, processed. What did they get instead? Eliminated, grounded animal keepers, desperate families. They promised that we would have agriculture at European level, a European-level agricultural processing industry; you can see that you promised. What did they get instead? Supported foreign industrial multinationals who destroy the Hungarian land, destroy the Hungarian workforce, destroy the Hungarian countryside's right to exist and its vision. They promised us many things, most of all, those new landlords. You have distributed the Hungarian lands, the state lands have been redistributed. You could apply again, there were a lot of farmers who applied for it. A shepherd told me what happened. He's applied for the land. It's tied to charity. He fed it, he worked on it, he took on an extra animal just to fulfill his dream of farming on his own, and he stays where he was born. Two years later, the state land on which he signed a 20-year lease was auctioned from under his feet. Such farmers did not have the money to buy it, but not just this one shepherd, whether it was any animal keeper, which you knew exactly. Who bought these lands? Look around you. Land speculators. It is clear that they were orange earth speculators. They're all close to Fidesz, they're all close to your party, and now these people are taking the faggot off these farmers, especially in these desperate times, and these farmers don't get any help, they can go anywhere. Today, in this room, it was said that we need the chambers, that we need the advocacy organizations to protect these people. Well, here it is, they can be protected. These people have not been protected in the last 13 years. It is not that he did not defend them, he delivered them, he delivered them to the people of the reigning power, which is not the left, it is not the opposition, it is not Brussels, it is you, the respected Fidesz. Your Green Barons have destroyed everything in the country, and you are surprised that there is no population in the countryside, no children born! Well, what are they supposed to be born for? ! The lack of prospects, the examples of farming families seeing that they have no future? ! Please change it, show us what the Hungarian agri-interest protection can do, show us at any cost, show us that it protects livestock keepers, field farmers, protects beekeepers, because it is two thirds behind you, or two thirds next to the bench, because in your ranks, our agri-interest protectors can show you what they can do. We demand worthwhile steps to ensure that Hungarian agri-interest protection is genuine, so that the interests of real Hungarian farmers are met, not those of land speculators. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-08-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs also applied for the post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent moments, my excellent colleague, János Bencze, spoke about the problems of the countryside through the difficulties of agriculture. Rural Hungary is not only killed by infinitely unfair land estate conditions, not only by lack of processing capacity, not only by bad, meaningless roads, not only by the withdrawal of the state, not only by the lack of a normally paid job, but also by a kind of NERsevistan-appropriate Döbögögti mentality. A very sad example is the manifestation of the mayor of Nyírmártonfalva. Yet Viktor Orbán said not so long ago that we would never try to silence those who disagree with us. Mr. Mayor, perhaps you didn't hear what Prime Minister said, who actually threatened a young woman working as a public worker with a child, who dared to place a laughing smile under a Facebook post, which reported that a forestless canopy trail was built in the village from 60 million forints of EU funding. So, Mr. Mayor threatened to take off the laughing head, "Think a little, it's good what you're doing." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, If you have to think about the many decades since the change of regime or the change of method, let's say which of the top 10 was the most outrageous and disgusting public political sentence, then I think this is one of them. Obviously, you can find this from the other side. We know that there is actually no tragedy that can compete with woke insanity. There was another mayor who said that white, Christian, and heterosexual men and women were terrifying formations. Well, they're not. [[15.40]] However, all such revelations and then the mayor of Nyírmártonfalva contribute to making life more and more unlivable in the countryside, because very many are driven away not only by the lack of livelihood, but also by this attitude. Ladies and gentlemen, I could, by the way, use my own narrower Patriot with such sad examples when, say, a teacher colleague was placed on the edge of the rug because he liked me, or dared to allow himself to share on Facebook: "Who do you think you're getting your salary from? It is certainly not Fidesz, if he was not an employee of their group, he was paid by the Hungarian state as a state employee, even if they were not thinking of some kind of party-state method, which would have caused a more normal party secretary to burn the skin off his face at the end of the time. So that's what the mayor of Nyírmarton should have understood. I have a story. In 2017, I was invited to a village day, and the deputy mayor of the village, who is a fidesze and an infinitely decent and normal Hungarian person, was already in a good mood, and he welcomed me to acknowledge that Viktor Orbán is the god for him. And I told him that you should realize that even Gábor Vona isn't one for me. You're a little surprised by that, aren't you, Gábor Vona was president of Jobbik: I told him no, it's not that at all. I respect, I love Gábor Vona, but it will be a happy country, a happy nation, if one side or another doesn't look for God's replacement in politicians or some kind of father's replacement and leader for you. Because if people raise politicians to a kind of divine pedestal, then the ego will be released and the law itself will begin to write. From then on, he does not accept criticism, he does not even accept a constructive, positive opinion, and this is an infinitely harmful thing for civilian development. So for those of you who ran off after all, I'm number XIX. I could recommend a quote from one of the wisest politicians in the century. József Eötvös said: "Nothing develops our weaknesses more than power. Let's think about this from the prime minister to the mayor. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-08-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs from the DK Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-05-08-210	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Democratic Coalition is thinking about values. It is worth the appreciation, knowledge, respect, well-being of another person, ensuring a stable livelihood. It is important for us to hear close to life what concerns, for example, the people of Miskolc, what weighs their souls, what they believe, and what they do not. We stand on the ground with two feet, living in everyday life, not Fidesz. You've been separated from the reality of everyday life for 13 years, floating several meters from the ground. In their luxury kitchens, the butler, the maid, the valet serves vitamin-rich, nutritious food. So you don't have to go to the market, you don't see the prices, because it doesn't matter if it's 700 forints a pound of bread or 1300. Quoting from the pen of János Arany:, Blind and fish, and what a good bite / Inspiration of the eye-mouth, / Urgent group, a hundred servants wear / To watch also tereh. Yeah, we're an eye-to-mouth stimuli, and you get it more than once a day. Do you even know what prices there are in stores? ! My colleagues and I in Miskolc are present twice a week in a different public area, standing, as we call these posts. Last time we talked to the passers-by at the busiest place on Széchenyi High Street, at the Electric Police Station, how they feel, how they live in everyday life. There was talk of the status law, which is about beating teachers into prison chains, but they are increasingly expressing their opinion on health problems, how the government has saved money from state-owned public institutions and what conditions prevail in nursing homes. We asked them about their eating, shopping habits. They think about making pancakes or noodles, because they both don't fit in the family budget. The mother asks before shopping: "Do you want scrambled eggs or cocoa for breakfast, my little girl? 'Cause they can't both be on the table. Most pensioners no longer see options in these products, eggs or milk, cottage cheese or butter. They're trying to cook without these. Compared to March 2022, food prices increased by 44 percent. Eggs grew by 73 percent, dairy products by 72%, butter, butter cream by 67 percent, bread by 66 percent and cheese by 60 percent. The seriousness of the livelihood crisis is indicated by the fact that although people spent a lot more money on their salaries, their pensions on the wheat or iron factory market, their shopping baskets had less food, such as sour cream, cottage cheese, bread or meat. In a year, sales of retail stores fell by 13.1 percent. This is a larger fall than was measured in the spring of 2020 during the coronal virus epidemic, since it was 12.4 percent. One of the articles of the Miskolc Diary is the most important one: - Your life has become even more expensive. This association from the film best quotes the latest inflation figures. The average increase in prices, which is fast-paced, exceeds 25 percent by March of this year. There are several items where real price increases are above 40 percent. These are mainly food, energy, gas, electricity, fuel prices, all the costs that people cannot avoid. Eat, cook, heat, go to the workplace, go to kindergarten, go to school, drive, rent. Inflation ate wages, pay less than a year or a month earlier. János Arany seemed to have known the Hungarian government in 2023: People are becoming more courageous because of the prison chains of the Orbán system, and they are increasingly seeing through the situation that nothing else is being done by the current government but corruption wrapped in false communication. Everyone should know that the Orbán government is responsible for the livelihood crisis. As long as you're on the government, it's sad, it's disappointing, it's unpredictable, it's uncertain. Orbán will increase prices, and Klára Dobrev will increase wages. The shadow government is the ray of hope, the light at the end of the fidesz dark tunnel. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-211	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. After the agenda, MEP Judit Ráczné Földi applied for a speech from the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A total of 39,751 patients are waiting for surgery in hospitals. Due to a lack of capacity, another 6050 patients are waiting for surgery. We are talking about more than 45,000 human fates whose quality of life is incomplete because of unnecessary waiting, who live in pain every day, who are waiting for the rescue phone every day, a notice that the intervention for which months are expected can finally take place. Due to the increased waiting lists, longer booking times, many people even look beyond their strength for private care. The government is punishing its own citizens because of a supply and organizational error. There are partial confessions on the part of the government regarding the length of the waiting lists, but it has not yet been said that this is all due to mismanagement. On 31 December, Bence Rétvári said that the introduction of tools to bring waiting lists back to 2019 is necessary to reduce waiting lists. Four months have passed, and the Secretary of State has only had another speech this year, on 3 May, to resolve the situation, according to which outpatient care decisions will be taken in the spring to reduce the waiting time. Unfortunately, we didn't find out which spring he was thinking, because this spring is about to end. [[15.50]] However, it is not mentioned that the lack of health professionals is one of the major problems in the area of health. The financial appreciation of the workers has long waited; it is outrageous that the government gives the health professionals an 18 percent wage increase, while inflation in Orbán is above 25 percent in the first three months of the year. Let's get some chatter. Based on the waiting list of St. George Fejér County University Training Hospital, there are 424 patients waiting for hip replacements, on average 141 days. There are 233 patients waiting for laparoscopic surgery, an average of 171 days. 289 patients are scheduled for tonsils and nasal tonsil surgery. And 165 patients for hernia surgery. 655 waiting for knee replacement, 201 days. In addition to the official waiting lists, however, the availability of individual specialist orders is limited, not only in Székesfehérvár, but also nationally. For example, the patient will be scheduled for a cardiological examination four to five months later than the application. This is completely outrageous! You can get in on a diabethological order with a six-month wait. However, they may not be able to complete the scheduled appointment due to a medical shortage. Unfortunately, however, we hear little about these things, although it is very important that everyone receive the necessary care prescribed for them in time. Unfortunately, there is also no information on the reasons for funding or human resources for delays in care. What can the patient do if he doesn't know, if he doesn't want to, because of the pain, he can't wait for the appointment? He'll turn to private service providers, where, if not immediately, he'll have an appointment in a few days. However, there are many who cannot afford private service providers; they have the waiting, the pain tolerance, the poor quality of life. But who is responsible if a study is carried out too late from the patient's point of view? What happens if irreversible deterioration occurs? You know the answer, don't you? The government that has been in power for 13 years and in which words it does everything for the people, but in reality it only cares about the welfare of the privileged. In order to reduce the queue and waiting time at the University Hospital of Szent György Fejér County, from 1 May, not only those arriving at the laboratory with a doctor's appointment but also a specialist's appointment must make an appointment for blood collection. For example, from 435 to 26 May, a total of 19 patients can be accommodated by booking places for those arriving with a GP. If someone wants to do this test faster than that, they'll have to keep the paid private service. This is another proof of the conditions currently prevailing in Hungarian health care. The Orbán government seems to be able to do that. So now the shadow government is the only hope that Hungarians, including the Székesfehérvár people, will get better health care, healthier and thus live longer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-213	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Zoltán Varga has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-214	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I will, for a reason, pick up where my fellow Member left off. I have to admit, even I don't like to say it, but the health system in the world of Orbán is as sick as you are in Orbán's system. The Orbáns from the health subsystem have destroyed and stolen what they can, and now they have made the rest of the NER Oligarcha's kissers a lousy toy. Although we know that the government's propaganda is that Hungarian health care is free and will remain free, none of this is true today. The problem with the government is not only that the Hungarian worker, teacher, baker, stone-carver and ballet dancer has to take care of himself, but also, as an incurable patient in need of continuous care and healing, of their loved ones, even at the end of their lives, if they cannot afford to pay for their paid social services, because in hospitals the government has simply eliminated the chronic care classes in a cynical and vile way. And the basic supply, we know very well, as such, is at the end. There are at least 700 GPs missing from the GP system, and the patients are desperately wandering around in the mazes of opaque, chaotic Hungarian health care, a doctor, and now, unfortunately, they are missing drugs, specializations or diagnostic procedures. The scale of cancer deaths in the EU is by far the most tragic in the EU, which is no wonder, since Orbán's cynical government, while, of course, spending hundreds of billions on lying propaganda, spends one of the least in the European Union on prevention of cancer diseases, diagnostics, but also healing itself. Basic medical diagnostic tests, but in many cases even a single colonoscopy is no longer available to the Hungarian people; almost everyone is only going to drop down if they need a CT scan or an MRI scan, and they are no longer trying to reach the public health system. The Hungarians are now automatically turning to the growing pay-per-view of mushroom mode, and pay for it if they can't do otherwise, taking credit, or, in better case, having a family collaboration, the possibility of doing so in case there are hundreds of thousands of forints of supply and procedure fees, as in the case of a person's life may depend on a medical diagnostic examination carried out at the time. Of course, what I see is that Orbán and his vassals now do not really deny that healthcare is the same business as the robbery of public lighting for Orbán's son-in-law, but whether the gas business of the blood plasma or the Ripper, or the highways, or MOL, for example, the garbage concession. And for God's sakes, how much longer can we name the blood-cooking examples and, of course, the same length of time for Orbán's relatives and friends? Please, we can talk about the growing number of private luxurious hospitals, and sooner or later we will have to talk about this, where, of course, they will receive and provide perfect and professional care. But the only person who can use that is the one with millions of people in their pockets and wallets. We could talk about the fact that we are now at the point where a public energy company is already advertising on its website private health business and insurance related to NER and encouraging those involved in the service to use this expensive private health service. I think it's safe to say, and I won't be alone in this room, and unfortunately, the growing and increasingly desperate and alarmed masses of patients who are desperately searching for the ruins of Hungarian health care could only confirm what I'm about to say, that today Orbán and his cynical horde have reduced health to the business of NER kissers. It is only the government that will soon stand up, led by Klára Dobrev, who will be able to restore the Hungarian people's faith in good governance; it will only be the government of Klára Dobrev that will be able to provide high-quality and truly free healthcare for all Hungarian people in need. This time and this moment will soon come. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-08-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dócs, representative of Mi Hazan, will now take the floor after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-216	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I have come before this House today on the subject of current public affairs, which concerns a very important issue, the railway network of the county of Nógrád. Nógrád is the only county whose seat is currently not directly connected with the capital. This has not always been the case, since we are talking about neighbouring counties, located next to Nógrád County Pest County. That's why we'd think you'd think that rail connections wouldn't be a devilish thing to do in the 21st century. In the century. On the other hand, Salgótarján is one of the few county seats from which there is no electrified railway line leading to Budapest in the 21st century. In the century, in the era of electric cars, and there is no intercity service available. In addition, it used to be possible to walk almost the whole length of the track at a speed of 100 kilometres and at a pace, nowadays, even if the very old and outdated vehicles were suitable, even because of the slow marks of 40 and 60 kilometres, this cannot be achieved due to the condition of the track. [[16.00]] On railway lines served from Balassagyarmat, the passenger trains were replaced by a BZ type motorcar immediately after the steam locomotives, which still dominate to this day, but unfortunately they only go to Drégelypalánk. According to experts, opening and rebuilding border crossings is currently not a question of money, but a question of political will. It would therefore be very important for us to look at this matter from a tourist and economic point of view, and it would be a great step forward if the railway link existed again between our Drégelypalánk and Ipolyság, an upland town. By rebuilding the railway track, a lot of truckloads of goods could travel by rail instead of our legendary low-quality road network. The Calvary of the Drégelypalánk-Ipolyság railway line started not now and not even with the change of regime, but with the 19th century. At the end of the 20th century, when the phase was completed in almost ten years and its aim was to reach an east-west rail link, it could be reached via Losonc to Vienna through Bratislava. This 1920 Trianon dictatorship broke into his waist and unfortunately cut this Ipoly line in half. In 1963, based on military political reasons, the rails were picked up at a distance of 6.3 kilometres between our completely unused Drégélyspalat and Ipolyság. The leaders of both municipalities have already contacted the head of the Ministry of Construction and Transport, János Lázár, with the request to support the reconstruction of this broken railway track. However, there has been exemplary cooperation in the eastern part of the line, since more than seventy years ago, in 1951, rail traffic started beyond the sarcasm. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Prime Minister Mikuláš Dzurinda signed an agreement in principle in 1999 after their meeting, stating that this broken railway line will be rebuilt between Ipolyság and Drégelypala. We can talk about a quarter of a century of failure, but the story did not stop here, because even though there was an agreement on this, in 2019 a government decision was taken, no progress has been made. A feasibility study was carried out in 2022, which was welcomed and welcomed by both departments and stakeholders. In light of this, in April 2022 the Slovak Government offered to undertake passenger trains at its own expense between Losonc and Balassagyarmat, but unfortunately this has not yet been implemented. I was pleased to hear that Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, pointed out that, like Ipolydamásd, bridges are built on Ipoly and connect the regions of the Highlands and Motherland, but I would like to say that if we were so pleased with bridges and the uplifting and resuscitation of road transport, it would be necessary to avoid and point out that this could be done on the railway, because we believe that this would be a very well-founded decision, both economically and in tourism. Not least, I think that if our country had been torn apart in 1920, then we should also connect figuratively. I think that, in the life of the Hungarians in the Highlands and in order to maintain them, there is a great need for a public transport perspective to start again with the mother country, and that this railway line should once again become part of the circulation. Thank you very much for the floor. [[János Bencze applauds.]]
u2023-05-08-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members. After the agenda, Mr Miklós Hajnal from the Momentum Group applied for a speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-218	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, A year ago, I was honoured by the highlanders and the Bel-Budans who trusted their representation here in the National Assembly; although not in the country, we managed to replace the representatives of Fidesz locally. Since the beginning of my work as a Member, we have also succeeded in several local initiatives and I have started to cooperate with a number of local, decisive players. After a year, I would like to give you a brief account of the results of the work that has been started. It was clear to me last year that the framework for the work of its representatives was very limited. The two-thirds majority of the governing parties, of course, and unfortunately, the regulation government remained with us from the previous years, and yet I have tried to live with my powers within and outside Parliament. Over the past year, I have tabled nearly 30 proposals that would have provided a solution to the II. 1 and XII Circuit residents' problems. Last June I made a number of amendments to the budget debate, including the renovation of St. John's Hospital, the digitalisation of health care, the protection of green areas in Budapest and the energy modernisation of residential houses. I also presented proposals for decisions during the year, for example to protect Normafa and to remedy the errors and shortcomings of the premium system. Unfortunately, these suggestions were all over deaf ears. If there is a positive point to be drawn from the last year's legislation, it is best to look for decisions to bring EU money back. Here, the amendment that I have tabled has finally been included in the final text of the law, so that the prosecution can be used more widely, forcing the prosecution to press charges, which, unfortunately, has failed to do so in many corruption cases in recent years. Seeing how Fidesz MEPs can practically vote down proposals from their wrists, even without a single comment or debate, we should be glad that fortunately not everything is decided in Parliament. And I am also pleased that even in spite of the two thirds, we can achieve success either in cooperation with the municipalities or with other local communities. Allow me to give a brief account of these, too. One of the main objectives of the Momentum was the development of health care in the capital. Since 2019, in many cases, we have fought for the arrival of the promised state resources, the II. In the district, for example, the renovation of the Kapás utca office is already in the final line, which is also implemented with the support of the. Unfortunately, this struggle for health resources has to be fought again from time to time, and now some people are even talking about nationalising the clinics. That's out of the question here. Remaining on II. In the district, I have to mention the case of OPNI. Over the past year, several residents living in a service apartment in the former OPNI area have been prevented from being evicted with senseless and otherwise extremely inhumane. Thank you, in particular, for the work of lawyer Péter Szepesházi, for the cooperation of my fellow Member Bence Tordai and for the firm action of Mayor Gergely Orsi. But the XII. I've been dealing with a lot of cases in the district, and we've been dealing with them for the last year. I would like to point out one thing: in February, the mountain municipality decided to convert 11 thousand square meters of forest and park into residential areas. The only one who voted against this vote was Gábor Vadász. The conversion, we know what it means: basically wood cutting and installation. And there's already been too much of that in the district over the last few years. That is why I was pleased that the Living Mountain Association had launched a petition against the conversion. Soon the decision will be before the Metropolitan Assembly, and I have also helped with the collection of signatures for myself, and I will also do everything in the City Hall to ensure that this transfer is not approved. One of the best examples of this was that the public transport in Buda has improved a lot in recent months, bus line 105 has been compressed, and a new bus line 210 has also started through the Chain Bridge, connecting Svábhegy to downtown. The development of tram line 56 will soon begin, so that next year you can travel on this line with new, air-conditioned, low-floor trams. And last but not least, I invited all the schools in the constituency to attend a parliamentary visit, we have now hosted more than 700 students, and we will continue to create an opportunity for the departments in the mountains and in Bel-Buda to learn more about the short history of parliament and Hungarian democracy. The public culture and community of Hegyvidék and Bel-Buda provide significant support for me in both national and local work, which is why I thank them for their support of the last year, for their requests and suggestions, but, above all, for their trust in me. Thank you very much. We'll get back to work.
u2023-05-08-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! After the agenda, Mr Norbert Erdős from the Fidesz Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-08-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor today to recall the memory of our former fellow Member, the representative of the first freely elected Parliament after the regime change, the town of Békés and its region, and the leader of the group of the U.K., Dr. Gyula Pásztor, who gave his soul back to his Creator on 19 April of this year, in the 74th year of his life. [[16.10]] The long seven decades have not passed without a trace. Dr. Gyula Pásztor is a lawyer, a Member of Parliament and of the Council, a deputy mayor, and also a husband, father, and grandfather have reached the end of a meaningful life course, leaving an active years behind. Years that guard your business card, for where you have been, you have not been idle. He put his knowledge, professional experience and life experience in the public interest, his heart and soul into all his activities. He served his people, his narrower and wider community. The municipality of Békés considers him to be his own dead, as he worked with all his devotion for his city, contributed greatly to his development, as he did as a Member of Parliament in the first term. That's why I thought it appropriate for us to bow our heads here in the House of the Country. Gyula Pásztor was born in 1949 as the second child of Dr. Pál Pásztor and Katalin Gál's health worker. He graduated from his primary and secondary schools in Békés, then, after downloading the military service, he listened to law in Szeged. After obtaining the legal exam, he became a member of the Peaceful Law Association and soon became the head of it. His talent, dedication and public interest have already been shown here. He joined the system change movement, then gained an individual mandate in the colours of the Independent Kisgazda Party in the first freely elected Hungarian National Assembly; in the Parliament, which had a difficult task in every respect, he was constantly struggling with the shadows of his recent past, his legacy, his nerves, his laws, and all of this in constant opposition. He was a member of a number of committees, and for a time he was also a notary of the Parliament. During his work as a representative, he always kept in mind the interests of his narrower Patria, working for the city of Peace and its inhabitants. He took with his heart the fate and prosperity of peaceful citizens, but he also fought with the same determination for the interests of the farmers there. He was actively involved in the development of compensation laws, in particular those concerning agricultural land. As a result of his representative's work, Reformed Church Education could be restarted in Békés, the building of the high school was restored to the church, and the building of the college began. The agricultural school has reached nearly 150 hectares of farmland, which has continued to serve education. Thanks to him, the urban sports hall, the dredging out of the Living Water Channel and the strengthening of its coastline were completed, and then the peaceful sewage plant began to operate in a trial run. He was very and rightly proud of all of this. And when national politics ended, he continued at home, locally, as a municipal representative, as a social deputy mayor for several cycles. Living with today's jargon, he lobbied tirelessly for various investments. There were no closed doors for him, only they were closed. In the meantime, his children grew up and followed him to his joy on the field. Dr. Orsolya Pásztor and Dr. Gyula Pásztor began their training years next to him, while he gradually retired, giving the young people the terrain, the work, the trip. Since 2010, he has not taken up any position, he would have taken over his golden diploma in September this year. She lived a full life among her children, her grandchildren, in love, helping them in everything. I give you a flame, nurse it, pass it on, and take care of it faithfully writes Sándor Hopeik Transylvanian poet. Dr. Gyula Pásztor has already set flames in his life, and these flames continue to be his legacy. May he rest in peace.
u2023-05-08-221	Thank you very much, Congressman, for this lovely memorial. To speak after the agenda, MEP Illés Boglárka from the Fidesz Group has applied. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-05-08-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Tomorrow will be 78 years. On 9 May 1945, at 10:16 p.m., the Second World War ended in Europe. We can hardly doubt that it was the greatest disaster in human history. My generation knows World War II from history books and narratives. Our parents were circumstantial, and our grandparents had a direct experience of the horrors. Today, however, we are living in such a time that we need to get back on our feet and start over from the shocks affecting the world and our country. This is the common experience of all generations living today. Although we believed that the threat of war had disappeared forever from the horizon of Europe after the Second World War, there is still an armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and we have to face its effects on everyday life, whether it is about our fellow nations living in Transcarpathia, farmers who want to sell their healthy crops in Hungary, or the increased financial burdens of families wishing to heat or cool their homes as summer approaches. Meanwhile, on behalf of women with children, I can say in particular that we must plan for the future. For as in 1945, after six years of war, destruction, exhaustion, and despair, peace came, so, though far away from the hope of peace, we cannot give up. Our hope has been confirmed with Pope Francis' visit, and we must also think of a fresh start. That is why we are pushing for a truce, which is why we stand for peace, and that is why we are asking questions on which answers cannot be avoided for the future. What will happen to Europe and Hungary after war and self-destructive sanctions? After all, since World War II we have known that every successful fresh start, behind every successful construction, there must be a sufficient amount of raw materials, investment in goals, technology to support innovation and a skilled workforce to ensure competitiveness, equipped with faith and willpower. I would like to talk about the latter, and I would like to draw attention to that. Dear House, We Hungarians do not merely design, prepare, act and face the challenges, but we keep proving that we are not right, but that we will be right. And we are coming right to another such area when we are talking about the announcement of the European Year of Skills, which will start tomorrow at the pace of Brussels. But what am I thinking? Allow me to quote the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council. The European Skills Agenda aims to ensure that the content of the training is adapted to the needs of the labour market and to better coordinate training opportunities and human aspirations. These are the goals that we set after 2010 and have achieved in several steps. By transforming the vocational training system, we want and wish to achieve full employment, while maintaining increasing employment, with the appropriate emphasis on practice in addition to theoretical training. We have set out that there should be a number of qualified and qualified professionals that meet market expectations, who can be easily and quickly placed. In addition to the self-serving nature of the training, we wanted to emphasise the public interest. At the time, the left had a problem, a terminal, a dead end, with the introduction of dual training to the top of the vocational training. Now, of course, they won't say anything. When it has been proven that the transformation is successful and successful, and even the same goals will be seen some decades later in the European Year of Skills decision, they will be silent. However, you should welcome it, because the European Year of Skills is an opportunity to bring Hungarian logic closer to Brussels decision-makers, to recognise Hungarian achievements, and to give Hungarian young people due due to their innovative thinking, talent and perseverance, the proper consideration of their standing in international vocational training competitions. Instead of the false responses in Brussels to the challenges that Hungarians clearly and vaguely perceive in Brussels, let them know the answers that we already have in practice, so that European decisions are better and better. They can study the practice of developing a Hungarian work-based society, both in youth unemployment indicators and in the employment of young people, and in reducing the number of young people who do not study and work. For example, when it is found that the European working age population is expected to fall from 64 per cent in 2019 to 56 per cent in 2070. The problem is clear, as is the answer, which is not in illegal immigration, but in demographic change. I also ask the decision-makers in Brussels to think only of the European Year starting tomorrow and of the decision adopting the year when they are working on withholding funds that are legitimately due to Hungarians. Because they can speak seriously and crediblely about sustainable growth, equal opportunities, recovery and resilience plans in Europe if they do not wish to measure them with double standards out of political malice. It is important that we all draw attention to this. Thank you very much. [[16.20]]
u2023-05-08-223	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 22 May 2023. I now thank you for your work today, thank you for keeping the record, for the technical work, for the help of the office staff. Good evening, everyone. The meeting's closed.
