u2023-02-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The second day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. To speak before the agenda, Mrs Bernadett Bakos, the LMP Group, spoke with a title on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since he came to power, every step of this government has served to make foreign capital as comfortable as possible here in Hungary, even at the expense of the Hungarian people. This process, which we are currently seeing peaking in the conflict between battery companies and the local population, has been going on for over a decade. It is difficult to argue with the fact that the government does not protect our natural resources, but sells them out, battery factories, forest destruction decree, Lake Fertő, and the line could continue indefinitely. In addition, a few years ago, they did not even try to deny it, as in 2019 Péter Szijjártó proudly said that the Hungarian government will always have a more important interest in the automotive industry than sustainability. Today, we are operating a state that does not regard as its official task as preventing damage to nature, but as turning a blind eye to them. That's why the nature reserve system was built, and it's enough to look at the Samsung plant in Göd, where in recent years all existing rules have been broken, but the state has either missed them or there have been smiling fines. Workers' rights were also shattered for the sake of capital almost ten years ago with the introduction of the new Labour Code. They refuse to raise any wage because, in your economic policy, Hungary's competitiveness means that if Hungarian people make little money, if Hungarian workers have a weak ability to assert their interests, and if they serve the convenience of multinationals with taxpayers' money. Márton Nagy made it clear in one of his writings that the government wants to be a successful player in the international competition by paying more than anyone to the battery companies to bring their plants here. Only the factory in Debrecen, according to news published in the Chinese press, will receive 320 billion forints to come here and take the land, use our water and energy. Moreover, the various large companies virtually do not pay taxes in Hungary. In Hungary, there is no money for quality healthcare, education, humiliatingly low earning by teachers or social workers, while these companies earn hundreds of billions of HUF of profits, which are immediately exported from the country. Only Audi transferred HUF 2000 billion from its Hungarian company, while barely paying taxes at home. The fact that Hungarians support the global capital by billions at the expense of the Hungarian people in order to destroy our environment is not in Hungary's best interest, but is in the country's utmost interest in the profits of multinational companies, because the government does not represent the interests of the Hungarian people in this debate, but the interests of the foreign corporations and they do not even hide it. It is enough to think, for example, of the public hearing in Debrecen, where on one side of the table was the Archbishop and the representatives of the company, and on the other side hundreds of angry Debrecen, who did not want to sell their future. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán ruled the LMP as anti-foreign capital yesterday. He said that Hungary's prosperity cannot be imagined without foreign factories. We're not against foreign capital. [[Tamás Menczer: You are anti-Hungarians! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: Great! Cut! Cut!]] We say that capital cannot prevent people, that large foreign companies cannot colonise countries and that we cannot make Hungary's future dependent on the profits of multinationals. This road is a dead end because it's all about living up to our future, but there are two things that need to be made clear. On the one hand, whatever the government says, there's another way. Hungary does not need to become a colony of foreign large companies, we have enough resources, we have enough talent and diligence to succeed without it. On the other hand, if we want to change it, we have to change it now, we have to stop this plan now, because if we let them turn the country into a battery ring now, we can't undo it. Orbán himself said that this debate should be held, but I see that the best way to do so after yesterday's coastal debate day would be the national referendum. That is why we initiated this and we hope that you can support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-02-28-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz wishes to respond to what has been said. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2023-02-28-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I recall that you attended yesterday's meeting, and here you were also present in the debate that went into the night, and you also heard the Prime Minister in Parliament. Here you mentioned foreign capital. I think that the Prime Minister has made the Hungarian position clear on that point, and that the first of us, of course, are Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, but foreign investment is absolutely necessary, and I hope that the congresswoman also remembers the time when Hungary had one million fewer jobs. It is a huge achievement that we have been able to create virtually one million jobs in this country, and foreign investment has played a major role in this, so I believe that this will be extremely important in the future. We explained it several times yesterday, but I believe that this day must be repeated, too, that it is very important for the government to build the Debrecen factory and every factory in Hungary according to the strictest possible rules, as well as in compliance with European Union and Hungarian legislation, this is also true of environmental standards, and the Debrecen battery factory, which is built in compliance with the strictest rules, provides a significant advantage to Hungary and hundreds of thousands of people who work in the Hungarian automotive industry. I also think that the Congresswoman recognises that the Hungarian automotive and automotive industry is extremely important for the country, and that a great deal of jobs can be lost if we cannot keep up with this technological change in practice. During yesterday's debate, we were very saddened to see that those who initiated this did not really participate, for example, in this night's debate in Szabó Timea. [[Bernadett Bakos: I was here!]] Yes, you were here, that's a fact and a fact, and technically there, I think the left-wing representatives questioned everything. So this debate was how should I put it? It really took a very long time, and perhaps the reason that the positions could not be properly collided was because all we said was that it wasn't. We do, and I think that this government is really in favour of the Hungarian people, and it takes into account that, following all the rules, a very, very good factory can be built from an environmental point of view. Of course, we understand the concerns of people in Debrecen, and that is why we considered it important to discuss this yesterday as well. Speaking of other issues, this is the energy situation. It has to be said that there is a war, and because of the sanctioning system, there has been an energy crisis that, unfortunately, causes inflation, an increase in food prices, and it is also a huge result that in this situation, we have been able to resolve the possibility of maintaining the reduction of the rent for the Hungarian population, and to do so, we had to increase the amount of rent protection, the Rezségédélységégény to four times, HUF 2600 billion, and we can support families and local governments accordingly. The government's measures are effective, as the citizens of the EU receive gas and electricity at the lowest prices. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] In 2022 Hungary spent almost 6 percent of its GDP on public health protection; these are huge numbers, and we are practically ranked fourth in the EU ranking. [[9.10]] Hungary is therefore paying 4 billion more money to protect the economy. This is very, very sad because if there were no such sanctioning system and such Brussels policy, we would have been able to spend these funds much, much better. LMP and I often talk about renewable energy and ideas about it. I would also like to give you some good news about this. On 10 February and 21 February, in the sunny spring time, not only temperature records were broken, but in the southern peak time there were about 77 megawatts more energy produced by industrial-sized domestic solar power plants than previously measured. This was practically a record for the Hungarian solar power plant production, and 43.8 percent of the total renewable was given by the record production of solar power plants. The peak power output of solar power plants of 2030.5 megawatts exceeded the total installed capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I believe that it is important to report on these issues here in Parliament. We continue to ask for LMP's support on these ideas. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-4	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-02-28-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, An unprecedented leak of data was discovered on February 4, 2023, when the Portfolio Internet News Portal announced the analysis of the Macronomian Institute, in which statistical data that KSH had not yet published was published, as according to its calendar, the publication would have been due two days later on February 6th. Then later, when this series appeared, it was pinpointly the same as what my Macronom had said two days earlier. I filed a report on the leak on February 6th. I based my report on two facts: one is the abuse of office, the granting of an undue advantage to someone and the other is the unauthorised disclosure of inside information. The police responded to my motion on 22 February, rejecting my complaint. As a basis of reference, the Attorney General's refusal to answer my fellow Member, Mr Tóth, indicated that the suspicion of a criminal offence was missing, adding that my submission did not contain any new evidence and that this was therefore rejected. With regard to this procedure, which the National Detective Bureau of the Alert Police has done, I have a few questions. First of all, why did Officer Colonel Csaba Khruska respond to my complaint on 6 February 2023 only on 22 February when he had an obligation to respond within 3 days? My second question is, why did the police link your question to Attorney General Bertalan Tóth with my complaint? Was this procedure legal? The third thing is: if, according to the police, the illegal disclosure of inside information has not been carried out, how can it be understood that two days before the official publication, the Macronom Institute published retail data? By the way, this publication was publicly acknowledged by the Institute itself. The next question is: if the police did not believe that the facts of the abuse of office had been carried out, how can the position of the HCSO, in which it acknowledged that there was indeed a data leak, not from him, but from one of the public bodies, from its secretariat? It must have been a ministry, so there's been a leak from one of the ministry's secretariats. If a ministry provides important statistical data to an analytical institute before they are published, then why doesn't this exhaust the fact of a misuse of office, giving an undue advantage to someone? Wasn't it because they feared that a secretary of state might fall victim to this investigation? László György, Secretary of State, who has very good relations with the Makronóm Institute, the Makronóm Institute, which has recently received 1 billion HUF of state money. And finally, I have another question. After handling such a case, why do the authorities of the ruble right wonder that the European Union is condemning Hungary on the rule of law? By the way, I am not giving up, I have filed a complaint against the police report at the Alert Police Department, and I have also initiated the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I know I don't have a lot of chances, but I don't want to let you guys get away easy. I will continue to work on this case in the future, precisely in order for the credibility of the Statistical Office to return, because it is very important for all of us. The Statistical Office is a national institution to which citizens entrust their data because they believe they are safe there. That's why we all have to do it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-02-28-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-02-28-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Central Statistical Office has already provided detailed information on this matter. KSH staff are subject to strict confidentiality rules for the management of statistical data. Only a limited number of staff can manage statistical data in a controlled and targeted manner prior to publication. Data management is provided by internal technical and other rules. In line with international practice, the HCSO provides limited prior access to certain actors. The aim of this practice is to ensure the preparation for the interpretation of published economic data. This pre-information exercise also concerns certain public decision-making bodies and news agencies and editorial offices. For each actor, prior access shall be subject to a declaration on the rules of the embargo. As soon as KSH found out about the data leak, it ordered an investigation. This investigation established that there was no data leak from the KSH. On the other hand, a recipient secretariat with a declaration transmitted the data by mistake, as they said. The KSH has taken the necessary steps without delay, has withdrawn the possibility of prior access to the data subject and has also tightened the rules for prior access. In order to avoid similar cases, those affected will receive them later. Honourable Congressman, You're talking about an unprecedented event, but there's been more serious cases. In the summer of 1999, the first quarter of GDP became known on the day before the official communication. As an immediate effect, the BUX fell significantly over a quarter of an hour, and the investors started selling. Do you know, Congressman Mellar, who was the president of the KSH then? Tamás Mellar was then the president of the KSH. The Member was shocked at the time, but not enough to demand the setting up of a committee of inquiry or to press charges. Then you didn't ask for the O.R.P.D.'s intervention. So there's some kind of double standard around here somewhere. I think we agree on that; at least judging by your reaction, I think we do. The whole picture includes the fact that you've been attacking the Central Statistical Office regularly for years. The main reason for this is that you are no longer the president, you are not the head of the organization. But that is no reason to constantly remove the skills of staff with decades of experience. You are constantly attacking the work of certain professional institutions. KSH is one of them. Yet, the work of this organisation is invaluable in keeping the dialogue on the economy and the key social issues on the ground of facts and statistics rather than false news. [[9.20]] What we see is that you go from party to party, and you try to draw attention to yourself by saying things that aren't real, so you try to attract attention. We have seen this in politics, and we take note of that, but with great respect, I ask the Member to bear greater responsibility for the institution that you once led. If your solidarity with your former colleagues cannot be relied upon, perhaps your sense of responsibility. That's what we're hoping for. I regret that we are not talking about the data that determine the present and future of the Hungarian economy, such as the fact that the Hungarian economy has grown by 4.6 percent, which is the sixth largest increase in the period after the regime change. We are also part of the first third of the EU during such a crisis. We're expecting growth this year as well. The investments reached a peak last year, reaching HUF 19 000 billion, which I hope will be followed up by 3.5 times the value of 2010. The number of people employed reached 4 million 700 thousand, while unemployment was record low. Wages increased by 18 percent last year, and if we take inflation into account because it is high, there has been a real wage increase. If we are already in inflation, which is one of the most important figures in the statistical field in these months, then the question is what the government is doing to break it. We have every hope that inflation will be one-digit by the end of the year. The Government will do everything in its power to do this, and I hope that we will be able to address these important issues in its next speech. Until then, we note quietly that these measures, which the Prime Minister also spoke about yesterday, are nothing, but we have received no assistance, all the more, attacks. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-28-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Toroczkai, Head of Group, Mi Hazank Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Active Affairs." Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2023-02-28-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will start where we left off yesterday with Prime Minister, but the two-minute genre is not enough to talk about, for example, the enforcement mafia, which is that when it comes to current affairs, we must talk about it or talk about it. We really came here, to the Hungarian Parliament, with the intention that there will be some kind of meaningful work going on here, and obviously there will be good points to be scored by who is better able to mow between these beautiful walls, but I think it is a different genre. So there is also a kind of occupation, only here, in Parliament, we should have some kind of normal and meaningful debate or even dialogue. With this intention, we have made a wide variety of proposals, we have made them orally, we have made them in writing. Each time I receive and receive the answer from Prime Minister that they will examine me, and if there is any way to have a normal dialogue for Hungary and Hungary, then they are open to it. Let us now look at a few cases that are still relevant today, but we have now been here in Parliament for almost a year, but we have received no constructive or substantive debate or even answers on these issues from you. Then let's go back to where we finished yesterday with Prime Minister, the executive mob. I didn't have time yesterday to say that it would be very simple for the government, and we don't necessarily have to submit any written material to the Minister of Justice in order for them to notice, for example, that the Hungarian court executive chamber [[Sic!]] [[Sic!]] It's completely illegal. Since November 2021, his President, György Schadl, has been under arrest in advance. Nevertheless, the new executives have been appointed more intensively than ever before, but the big question is who they took the oath before who they took the oath to. Vice President Tamás Lukács currently exercises this power, which was tried to regulate locally among themselves, but the laws of the executive chamber (sic!) The executive faculty can't override it either, so, in our view, these appointments are illegal. In other words, if we knew or the Hungarians knew who the 45 executives who have been appointed since then could calmly contradict and say that from now on the implementation process they are taking against them is not a legitimate process. I think it would be very simple for the government here. They've got two thirds of them. We need to clean up the executive staff. But I may have lived here last year with a naive or perhaps false initiative to correct the issue of constitution, constitutionality, not a one-party basic law. Well, it's obvious that the majority in the government doesn't want to talk about it. With regard to Ukraine, we have also said from the very first moment that we are opposed to the sanctions policy that Brussels is exercising. Then we do not understand why there is still a double speech on the part of the government and on the part of the Prime Minister. Here he says he's against it, and then in Brussels, or at the Versailles summit, he does something different. Or if it is the Ukrainian war, then we Hungarians agree with the suggestion that we are not Ukrainians, so we are not in the best interest of Ukraine, but the interests of Hungarians are the most important, because we are Hungarians, why hasn't the government spoken up once, for example, in the interests of Transcarpathia. And I'm not talking about you telling me that it's not a good thing that you're taking the Hungarians to the front for cannon fodder or bullet-picking, but, for example, telling us that there's been an illegitimate state in Ukraine since 1991. In this form Ukraine is an illegitimate state formation, because in 1991 there was a legitimate referendum on the status of Transcarpathia, which not only stated the self-determination of Transcarpathia, but also the Hungarian territorial autonomy of the district of Beregszász and its surroundings. In how many international forums did Hungary consider this to be a serious breach of law, that it is currently not in force in Ukraine, and until the Kiev government recognizes this referendum in 1991, there is nothing to talk about with Ukraine? Although no meaningful dialogue has been promised in this, we have also asked on numerous occasions about the Covid vaccinations not to experiment on Hungarians. However, we can now see that even in the case of traditional vaccinations that have seemed to work so far, for example, children are forced to use these experimental-stage mRNA vaccinations, and in the field of defence, our best soldiers have been kicked out from the end of the last year on a continuous basis, those tried soldiers who were not vaccinated with Covid vaccine in 2023, while Covid is now treated as influenza in almost every country. And then I couldn't even talk in five minutes about why we should become a great power in the food industry instead of a big power in the battery factory, then there wouldn't be such a huge amount of food inflation in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-02-28-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-02-28-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, On a wide scale, he has brought us topics from executives to Ukraine and Transcarpathia, so if you'll allow me, I have the honor of answering to you. I would like to begin with the question of war, if I may, and then I would like to address the issue of the battery which you mentioned last. With regard to the war, which, of course, affects all of our lives, but clearly affects the people who live there to the best extent, those who suffer there and those who die there, including the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, we can see that there are still two kinds of positions in Europe, a pro-war and a pro-peaceist. This situation is completely unchanged. The pro-war position endangers all of us, including the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, and the pro-war position, which is represented by Brussels and the Hungarian left, says that the war should continue. My problem with this is that they tie it to an expected military achievement, namely the victory of Ukraine, the end of the war. The pro-war position connects the end of the war to a military result that we do not know when it will come, if it does come at all. That is why we say that there is a pro-war position in Europe, unfortunately in the majority, which says that the war should continue. On the other hand, there is a Hungarian position which is pro-peace. We say that an immediate ceasefire and peace talks are needed because it is the only way to save life. How serious the situation is, let me tell the House and the Honourable Group Leader that, in the context of the one-year anniversary of the war in Brussels and in various representations and units in Brussels, a number of texts have been drawn up and a number of documents have been drafted in connection with the one-year anniversary of the war. We've always had these, and we've been involved in this work. When we have always said that although there are parts in the text that we may disagree with, write in it that we need an immediate ceasefire and peace talks. [[9.30]] I can inform this House, which I think is important, and it is a recent development that we have always been rejected. In all cases, the Brussels answer was that an immediate ceasefire means a red line. They refuse to put it in the text. This shows how pro-war policy in Brussels and the position in Brussels are. Let me also draw attention to the fact that the situation is escalating, although we call on all actors not to push the process towards the continuation of war and escalation, but on the contrary; yet we can see that Europe is becoming increasingly involved in war, ammo, weapons, tanks, now airplanes, combat planes. And therefore, it is important and here let me refer back to the election last April and the decision of the Hungarians that they decided to support the government and the ruling parties, such as peace and the pro-peace position; because if the left had won the election, then one: Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister, said that he would deliver weapons and those who carry weapons are already in the war, or even more so. Secondly, as Prime Minister said yesterday, there are now proposals to send so-called peacekeepers to Ukraine. In the foreseeable future, these questions will come up, and the left-wing Prime Minister candidate also said that he would be able to, if he had won the election, he would have been able to send Hungarian soldiers to Ukraine and to the war. [[Intercoms from DK's benches: That's not true! That's a lie!]] I understand that this is bothering you, and I want you to discuss this with Péter Márki-Zay. So: that is why it is important that the Hungarian people have chosen peace and the government couples have also chosen the government. With regard to the Transcarpathian Hungarians, it is also the case that their situation, their lives, and their situation can only be improved by peace and ceasefire; and in the current war conditions the Hungarian government is doing: we are renovating a clinic, building a kindergarten, helping to supply internal refugees, sending humanitarian shipments, supplying refugees arriving here, and this could be classified in length. And don't forget, Mr. Head of the Group, that we said that before the outbreak of the war we had serious debates with Ukrainian politics, because the rights of the Hungarians in Transcarpathia were taken away. After the war broke out, we put it on the edge of the table in such a way that there was a war situation, and Ukraine attacked us, so we put our conflicts on the edge of the table a little bit, but we didn't forget. And we can see that there is still a tendential attack on the Hungarian national community. We've always stood up for them, we stand up for them in the future, and I'm asking you not to discuss it. We'll return to the battery next time. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-28-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title: "In the shadow of disaster." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-02-28-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me first to take an investment council: take it on the pro-government side, not to be afraid of it, not of Soros, but of the excellent Magdolna Csath. The most important source of competitiveness in a country is the knowledgeable, healthy and well-being-satisfied population, which has the opportunity to work in jobs where it can utilize and continuously increase its knowledge and provide a decent standard of living and quality of life for itself and your family. So far, the quote. Where are we from these bourgeois ideals? Trust me, investing in Hungarian people, national human capital, is the safest return investment! Our country has been thoroughly drained by XX. In fact, after the outrageous and infinitely unjust Trianon peace dictatorship, the country was deprived of all its resources. However, between the two world wars, since Klebelsberg, the legendary Minister of Education, who created a miracle on the ruins, should actually be a kind of evidence of the sacredness attributed to Széchenyi, which indeed marked the success of a country in a multitude of educated heads of people. Gentlemen and ladies of the Government, it is therefore obvious that if you want to save your investment in Hungarian people, sooner or later, it will lead to great troubles. Because it's clear that XXI. The strengthening of human capital systems here in Hungary would also mean our 100th-century survival. Let us therefore take a look at the health that will be discussed today, the two other major sub-schemes that determine the state of human capital, the educational and social areas. They've been in power for 13 years, but the ignominious wages of the employees of education and social services, I think, tell us a lot about your effectiveness. At least in the case of teachers, there are promises. However, social professionals who care for the youngest, care for our eldest countrymen and help the weakest even regret this promise, they would even save us the honey trade. For them, there will be little left to sustain the miserable vegetation from today to tomorrow, with these miserable wages. But if you were to build a truly civil and merit-based society rather than a new feudal society, then there should be a fundamental objective on the part of the government, so that social status is not determined by the position of birth for the individual for the rest of his life. That is why it would be wise to keep in mind, fellow government colleagues, that the school should be the most important mobility channel. However, an effective, effective and equitable education that leads to a strong country would need to make the teaching career attractive, which is not now. Which just got old. From which there is a tremendous dropout, which is no wonder, because poverty in this area is also great, because it is amazing that a teacher earns 60% of the total salary on average. We've heard the promises a thousand times, and we can see where they've gone in three and a quarter cycles. And if the government were not guided by a kind of neoliberal approach, it would not be possible for the permanent government failure outlined above to make its impact more brutal in the social sphere. The 90,000 workers here feel betrayed, deceived and abandoned; unfortunately, they are absolutely right. Yet, these professionals are often the last refuge for those who have been given up by everyone else. Obviously, as a responsible conservative party, we do not regard self-care as something of the devil, but we also consider solidarity important. It would be important for the Hungarian state to set a good example and not to exclude social workers from this solidarity. By the way, those who are fighting in the first line of the fight against the social crisis in such a way that they themselves have to struggle with unfair wages. Obviously, these problems may seem marginal from the world of protected luxury residential parks and lounge centres. As a responsible conservative party, we also do not believe in the omnipotence of the state, but we do not believe in the inhuman neoliberal view that treats solidarity as a concept that should be ignored, and which, in fact, has lied and lied to a premature welfare state to this day. Firefighting won't be enough now. Indeed, there is a need for rapid and meaningful wage arrangements in these areas. Tomorrow, there will be a meeting of pro-government gentlemen and ladies to discuss the amendment of the budget. Once again, the best investment would be to invest in Hungarian people. So, during the budget, think about these two neglected sectors. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-02-28-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Jobbik wasn't even on the government, so if he continues like this, he may not be, but in the municipalities, here and there, they've shown the protein of their teeth exactly what they're doing. I mean, you're here to talk about the need to better appreciate people in education, in public education, and raise their wages, but what did the better mayor of Ozdon do? He reduced the salary of the kindergarten staff by 25 percent in public education. He's down 25 percent! You're talking about increasing wages by 50 and 100 percent, but where you're in power, and who you decide to do so, they're not the schools, because they're state or church reservations, but kindergartens that are in municipal reserve, and yet you got away with reducing wages by 25 percent. [[Ander Balázs: Who bled out the municipalities? Dr. Brenner Koloman: After the central budget took away the proceeds. I find it a little cynical.]] How can it be that when you meet, if I remember correctly, the mayor is named David Janiczak at a meeting of Jobbik, when you're changing your name or whatever; or when you called him to support you in your presidential campaign, you didn't tell him that you shouldn't have reduced the wage of kindergarten teachers by 25 percent in kindergartens? Did you mention that to him? 'Cause here in Parliament, you're saying really nice things, and you're supposed to raise it like that, just there, on the spot, when the good guys decide how much they're paying, how come they're choosing to cut their kindergarten pay? [[9.40]] Obviously, all wage increases must be covered, and we have made it clear that we are trying to use not only domestic but also EU funds to raise teachers' wages. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: How deceitful!]] Compared to this, your President, Márton Gyöngyösi, goes to Brussels so that Hungarians do not receive the funds they deserve. This is how Márton Gyöngyösi put it: the rule of law procedure has started, there will be a few months and no money. That's what your president says, that's why he's working, that he's gonna work for a few months, and there won't be any money. So you are working to use what we would like to do to raise the wages of teachers, for example, for school building, hospital renovation, for the renovation of social institutions, well, your president is happy to slap his knee there in Brussels for a few months, and there will be no money in Hungary from EU funds. Well, how is it that Jobbik's delegate to Brussels is not working, and the party's president is already working to make money for a teacher's wage increase in Hungary as soon as possible, but is working to make this money disappear as soon as possible? ! It is one thing to vote in favour of sanctions in Brussels, let alone vote in favour, applaud them [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Viktor Orbán, you have mistaken him for someone else. Amazing!]] This is the right thing to do, this is the right thing to do, so sanctions need to be stepped up. This is what he is talking about, the need to increase sanctions, and it is very right to do so. We all know, honourable Member, that Hungary has lost HUF 4000 billion in energy prices due to sanctions in the last year. The teacher's wage increase we're about to raise is HUF 648 billion in three years. 648 billion forints in three years! The penalty was HUF 4000 billion, the sanction package was taken out of the pockets of the Hungarian people in one year. 9,000 billion forints from the EU in seven years. 9,000 billion forints we get in seven years! In one year, sanctions took out nearly half of this, HUF 4000 billion. And your representative is working to see that it is very right, sanctions need to be stepped up. And who are you guys working with? Those who have reduced teacher's wages, closed schools, made teacher's education a lot more. And what are we about to do, honourable Member? The last period, the biggest educator's wage increase in the last 30 years. You can read this clearly in black and white, and you are working to prevent the resources for Hungary from reaching the Hungarian teachers, because you say that in Hungary EU funds are being stolen. Tell me, explain whether you or Márton Gyöngyösi, the HUF 648 billion that we would like to pay to Hungarian teachers, where is corruption in that? ! Where's the theft in that? Because you prevent us from raising the wages of Hungarian teachers by 75% out of nearly HUF 650 billion, so that a teacher can earn an average of HUF 777 thousand in two years; that this year there will be a 21 percent increase, not a 10 percent increase, but a 25 percent increase, and then a 29 percent increase. And you say that because of the risk of corruption, this money should not come to Hungary. Explain to me any left-wing politician where a teacher's wage raise is such a risk. I've only got a quarter of a minute left. In the social field, it was indeed necessary and still necessary to raise wages, but in 2014 we also tried to increase the wages of social workers with a social sector supplement, a supplement in 15 and a supplement in 16 and a supplement in 18 and a 20% wage increase in 22 respectively. From 1 January this year, the average wage increase is 11,8 percent, so the average wage in the social sphere is expected to reach and exceed 400 thousand forints, which is a 190 percent increase since 2010. But there is indeed much more to be done in this area to give respect to social workers. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-28-16	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Komjáthi, MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda: on current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-02-28-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What I want to talk to you about today is security again. It's safe for our countrymen to go down to the store and at least buy basic food. And they don't walk like they're on a museum tour, and they're looking at the counters like that, and right there, it's all for the eyes, but nothing for the hands. I live in Edel, and when I'm at home, I shop regularly at Penny and the convenience store. There are mostly under-average earners and pensioners, and I've been watching the process of making a quantitative and then a qualitative savings first. It's a quantum saver that they bought less and less, but that was less and less food of lower quality. Everyone's got a sense of runaway inflation on their own. Some say that EU record price increases are caused by the price caps of eight foods. But what about actions in stores, if the price of dozens or hundreds of goods sold is not overcompensated by traders, why would they do so with the eight price cap product? Would eight cheaper products have skyrocketed Hungarian inflation? No one can be serious about that. I'll tell you what the real reason for this is the result of the brutal food price increase in Hungary. Food prices are increasing not because of price caps, but as a result of nearly 30% VAT and special taxes on turnover having equivalent effect. This is what is nowhere in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, During inflation in Orbán, the official prices of eight basic foods play an important role, price caps do not reduce or increase inflation. At the same time, the food price stop helps, even to a small extent, the average income and the daily livelihood of families with income under the average pension. That is why we Socialists and Social Democrats represent: as long as food is so expensive, price caps must be maintained. Don't let the Fidesz lead out the price caps on April 30th. But this can only be achieved if, at the same time, the VAT on basic foods is zero percent. Extra VAT on food, currently 4.1 percent, must be abolished. Following the tax reduction, state official controls should be carried out in relation to the reduction of prices. On the other hand, small shops and small producers should receive public compensation for losses caused by price caps. On these issues, the Hungarian Socialist Party also launched an online consultation at www.elelmiszerarstop.hu. We ask that more people express their views there: instead of resisttops, we need a food stop, not fidesz restrictions. We think they help people make a living every day. I know that we will have debates in this with opposition parties representing neoliberal economic policy who think otherwise, but we are not pro-marketers, we are pro-humans. Thank you for listening.
u2023-02-28-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-19	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, His solid voice, about his shopping experience, and his economic discussion on inflation is very interesting, especially with regard to price caps. It's surprising because the Socialist Party seems to have woken up, and now you're saying that you've found one of the government's decisions, this particular food price tag, price hat, and you support it and you think it's good. This is also special because, by the way, there are six of the other opposition parties, none of them agree, there is only one exception, the Hungarian Socialist Party, who essentially supports the Government's decision. But then, honourable Member, the party should consider that if the government has a good decision, then I think it has several good decisions on how to deal with this inflation. By no means, as you say, to put zero percent inflation next to the price stop and the price cap. This would, on the one hand, constitute a double support scheme and, on the other hand, a significant loss of revenue for the budget, although I would add that the opposition party has no responsibility for ensuring that the budget is operational, that current expenditure can be paid, that there should always be resources available in the budget. [[9.50]] So, in addition to supporting the price cap, the Hungarian Socialist Party can easily say that VAT should be zero percent. It is very interesting, however, that when Fidesz-KDNP, as a governing party, proposes to reduce the VAT on basic foods by 5%, the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support this. So the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the fall to 5 percent, but it is very interesting when the party is in real trouble, when it has only 2 percent support, then it realizes that otherwise VAT should be abolished, and how stupid it is, that people do not have to pay this. When there is a question of VAT reduction before Parliament, you do not support it, because that is the case. Honourable Congressman, As far as your proposal for compensation to retailers is concerned, I say to you that the government has done so, as it has issued several tenders in the case that retail shops in settlements under two thousand may apply for aid, although not on the basis of what you say, but on the basis of compensation and support for energy costs, but also on the basis of support for butcher shops. So if you say you support the price cap, think about how the government's twenty measures against inflation are to protect jobs, to make the economy work, to make the budget work, to reduce the budget deficit so that unemployment doesn't grow and, by the way, doesn't grow in this difficult situation, to protect families, to protect pensions, to keep the overhead allowance for average consumption, which is unique in Europe, if you think about these measures, you will find that the government is doing everything it can to protect the people living in Hungary against high inflation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gy. Ms Erzsébet Németh, DK Group on Current Affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-02-28-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The poor economic and social policies of the Orbán government cause serious damage to all Hungarians, and particularly to pensioners. Older people suffer the highest inflation in the EU, which is unprecedented throughout Europe. You just have to go to the grocery store or go to the market, and you know that every day is worth less than the pension you've worked for all year. The Orbán government won't even give the pensioners a raise according to its own laws. From 2022, you owe them a full year, a total of one and a half percent, because this should have been incorporated into last year's pensions, and this is what you should have increased that 15% in 2023. The pension premium in 2022 would have been HUF 22,000 for all pensioners, and you only gave 10 thousand forints to the elderly. Although the total budget was planned, they also wanted to save some HUF 30 billion by means of creative law interpretation. So the pensioners didn't get half of what they were entitled to. This is an outrage, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen. According to DK, it is outrageous that the government is playing its own laws, but does not have to raise pensions, even though the elderly are already in an extremely vulnerable position: food prices are increasing, wages are increasing, living costs are increasing, pensions are barely rising. We haven't experienced such an increase since the Rakosi era. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The situation is deteriorating from month to month as inflation in Orbán rises. According to the shadow government, pensions should therefore be raised on a quarterly basis, the first instalment of which should be paid to the elderly as early as April this year. Old people can't lend money to the government. In the interest of pensioners, the Democratic Coalition has tabled several parliamentary resolutions, but the Fidesz majority does not even allow them to be included in a series of subjects, quite simply preventing us from discussing this in this Chamber, in plenary. Shame on you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Is that what old people are worth to you? ! At the same time, the shadow government has done the work for you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We have consulted the leaders of pensioners' organisations, our proposals, which, as I said, have been presented in the form of parliamentary decisions, we have formulated in agreement with them. What are these exactly? By 2022, a one-and-a-half-percent pension increase should be granted to pensioners from January to December, and this should have been increased by 15 per cent and thus by 1 January 2023. We would like to ask you to pay a one-time allowance of HUF 100,000 to the pensioners, and the 15 percent pension increase has to be corrected quarterly from the first half of this year, since inflation, which the Hungarian National Bank puts in between 15-19 percent this year... you were willing to raise pensions only with the lower limit. The shadow government led by Dobrev Klára has made an important proposal for many people, and I would like to draw your attention to it more and more, and I think that if you look into the situation of the Hungarian people, at least this one proposal will be accepted by DK. This is that the amount of HUF 150,000 that can be taken from the ATMs should be raised to HUF 250,000. This amount is set by you in 2014, so much money, or HUF 150,000, can be taken out of the ATMs free of charge, and today this amount is well above both the minimum wage net and the average pension. Before you are very happy that this is because you are raising pensions and wages so much, I think that is actually the result of inflation. Dear House, Before you, pro-government representatives, tell me that you've returned the 13th month's pension, let's get this sorted out. Between 2002-2010, the then governments gave the 13th month pension for seven years, and you did not grant a 13th month pension for 11 years between 2010-21. Now, when are pensioners better off when you are finally going to pay the pension for the second time in February, or when we paid this pension for seven years? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I believe that the shadow government...
u2023-02-28-22	Congresswoman!
u2023-02-28-23	... prepared for the steering, we know exactly...
u2023-02-28-24	Thank you, Congresswoman.
u2023-02-28-25	... how to help pensioners, and today the shadow government in Hungary is the only hope that pensioners will live better. [[Eszter Debate: You don't believe that! Dr. Répássy, Róbert: This is the shadow government of hope.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-02-28-26	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister András Tállai wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There is indeed a fundamental and political difference between the pension policy of DK and the Fidesz-KDNP government. You like to talk about the shadow government. The shadow government has no right to decide, no influence on their decisions, so it does not have any impact on society, no on pensioners, so obviously it has so much to do with expressing their resolution in Parliament. But if you'll allow me, I'd like to start from a distance, because the approach to the two policies should start here. When you personally governed, by the way, it was the same crisis. It was not such a crisis, because the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány did not recognise the crisis, and at the last moment the IMF had to rescue the country from bankruptcy and to keep Hungary solvent. [[10.00]] Then, of course, the IMF told you what to do, and you accepted it. Their first step was to be in a difficult situation, when the same way.... In fact, there was no economic growth, but a decline in the economy. [[Zoltán Varga: Like now.]] The inflation was high. What have you done? They took me away from people because they claimed that the solution to the difficulties of the economy is to take away the 13th month's pension, take away the 13th month's allowance. On the other hand, Fidesz thinks differently. In 2010, he said that we would protect the purchasing value of pensions [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Did you manage, Mr. Secretary? Tamás Menczer: Yes.]] ; and he has done this every year in the last 12 years' governance, even when it didn't go well for the economy, because after the change of government you gave him, it was an economy that didn't work, it had to be made operational, the revenue from the budget was restored to cover the pension increases. It started this way, but after 2010 we secured the purchasing value of pensions already in 2011. And that was the case as long as the economy went better when the pensions and other benefits mentioned by you were paid to the pensioners. There came the Covid epidemic, and then came the economic crisis, high energy prices, penalty inflation, which put the country's population and, of course, pensioners in a difficult situation. What did the government do? He did not do what you did, that we were going to take away from the retirement society and live the way you live, but the government said that in this difficult situation, the purchasing value of pensions must also be preserved, and pensioners should be given it in the form of a pension increase. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: They didn't give it to you, Mr. Secretary of State.]] And this has happened in the last year, in 2022, as twice a year, the government has secured the purchasing value of pensions. [[Zsolt Gréczy: A thousand forints a kilo of bread!]] And obviously the planned 5-percent pension increase for 2023. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: 5%? 15, Mr. Secretary.]] , obviously not an appropriate amount, which is why the government decided to give a 15 percent pension increase on 1 January and to pay the 13th month pension in February. And he didn't do what you did, that we wouldn't pay him, and there will be some way later, but the amount raised, the amount raised by 15 percent, was paid in February by the government to the pensioners as a 13th month pension. So, to claim that the Fidesz-KDNP government does not appreciate, does not respect the life-long work of pensioners and does not complement their pensions, even in economic circumstances, is simply a false claim [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Even if your shadow government and Klara Dobrev say so. Thank you very much. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right! Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Pathetic... Zsolt Gréczy: Thank you for admitting that there was a crisis in 2008. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-28	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Speaking before the agenda, István Hollik, Member of the KDNP Group, spoke on the title: "We must Peace! You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-02-28-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, the one-year anniversary of the beginning of the war makes it up to all of us to take stock of the past year. And unfortunately, the image that comes before our eyes is tragic and sad, because tens of thousands of people died in this war, there are victims on both sides, orphaned children, widows, broken existentials, hundreds of thousands of people fled, millions and economic damage not only in the affected countries, but all over Europe. For Hungary alone, the economic damage caused by the war, as well as the misguided, harmful sanctions in Brussels, was HUF 4000 billion, and this is what Hungary had to pay for the wrong sanctions policy. That's why we say this war doesn't have a winner, doesn't have a winner, can't have a winner, can't have a loser. At the same time, we are also seeing and we are glad that most of the world is pro-peace, just as we are, just reading the latest UN documents. However, we also see that our allies are pro-war. So there are three countries in the Western world that are clearly in favour of peace: Vatican, Israel and Hungary. And, of course, we can see that it is easy for those countries to send weapons, and it is easy for them to be pro-war countries that are far from here, even if they are separated by an ocean from the old continent. They do not face the sad and tragic consequences of wars, but we live next door, people flee to us. I talked to a family myself, and I looked into the eyes of a father who had to leave the house, animal, tools, and the rest of his life, and he had to run away. And yes, we know exactly what war means, because Hungary is the only one from the Western world who has human losses. There were Transcarpathians of Hungarians, many of them Hungarian citizens, who, however, fulfilled their duties, joined the army, went to the front and died. So we have casualties. So, to sum up, from the last year, we can say that despite the huge blood sacrifice, despite the amazing economic damage, we have moved away from the end of the war in a year, not closer to it. Our position has remained unchanged for a year: we condemn Russian aggression, we stand for Ukraine's territorial integrity, and we also help people who leave Ukraine towards Hungary in every way. But no one expects us to put the interests of Hungary ahead of other countries. So neither Kiev, Moscow or Washington's interests can prevent the representation of the Hungarian national interest. We find it very regrettable that the dollar left would stand in line and bring the country into the war under the influence of their foreign financiers. Not only Péter Márki-Zay, but recently Bence Tordai made it clear that if it were up to them, they would send weapons. And we believe that this is why a pro-peace resolution is needed to make clear who is on the side of peace and who is on the side of further bloodshed. Those who are about to vote in favour of a pro-peace resolution are on the side of peace, and those who do not, on the side of further bloodshed. We ask the dollar left to change their position for once, not to listen to their foreign financiers, but to stand where the majority of the Hungarian people stand, to stand for peace, and to do so by voting in favour of the pro-peace resolution. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Fürjes responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-02-28-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your input. This is also an opportunity for the government to reaffirm its position on the war. This is a four-pillar position: justice, peace, solidarity and patriotism. In the spirit of justice and legality, as you have said, from the very first moment we condemn Russia's aggression against international law very clearly, and we stand for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. [[10.10]] In the spirit of peace: given that life can only be saved in peace, peace is also in the interest of the Ukrainian and Russian people, the international community, Europe and Hungary, but we also want to achieve a ceasefire without delay, promote and ask for the opening of peace negotiations. In the spirit of solidarity, we are giving huge humanitarian aid to Ukraine, and in the spirit of patriotism we are very clear about the fact that we will stay out of this war, representing Hungarian interests. A little more: we condemn the illegal aggression of Russia, we sympathise with the families of the victims and we are solidarity with Ukraine. Therefore, within the framework of the largest humanitarian action in Hungary's history, we have been providing hundreds of billions of HUF worth of refugees for a year now, providing care for the victims of the war, undertaking the reconstruction of schools and hospitals in the war-torn Ukrainian territories, and we are still present in Ukraine with supply centres. Besides, we are very firmly on the side of peace. Our position is clear, clear and empowered by the Hungarian people. We protect Hungary's peace and security, we do not support or support the expansion and deepening of the war, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that Hungary does not drift into the war, because it is in Hungary's interest to stay out of the war and to end it as soon as possible. We therefore minimize the security and economic risks that threaten us in our strength, while, as a safe neighbour, we are doing everything we can to help Ukraine humanitarianly even if the Ukrainian state keeps the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia deprived of its rights. Is this Hungarian position appropriate, but correct and democratic? It is an important issue because we believe that, in the long term, only democratic and morally sound policy can succeed. The nations of the world, democratically elected governments, are empowered to represent and enforce the interests of that nation. Thus, the Hungarian government is responsible for organizing Hungarian state life, promoting the well-being of Hungarian people, representing and enforcing Hungarian interests, on the basis of the mandate given by Hungarian people, because democratic politics and democratic state life have been in the national state framework for centuries in Europe and in the Western world. National governments are empowered and entitled to handle their own national affairs within their own borders. This right is also a duty, a national government makes a mistake, even a sin, if it does not put the interests and service of its own nation first. Therefore, the Hungarian government must also put Hungary's interests first on the issue of war, not only morally correct, but also the only democratic position in the world order based on democratic state life within the national state framework. Because, Honourable Parliament, who is the Democrat? The one who is elected democratically, and then considers the service and enforcement of the interests of the community that elects him to be his task. At first, it always looks to the interests of the community whose decision is based on its democratic legitimacy and not on others, no matter how much pressure we are under. In addition, we will, of course, comply with the duty of cooperation and solidarity stemming from international law. Therefore, the four-pillar Hungarian position is justice, peace, solidarity, patriotism right and democratic, and can be represented bravely both in Hungary and in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-32	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-02-28-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, For more than a year now, Russia has attacked Ukraine, and there have been desperate fights in our neighbourhood ever since, and day after day death triumphs. The number of people fleeing from fighting and destruction is close to ten million, some one and a half million of them crossed the Hungarian-Ukrainian border. In response to the challenge, Hungary launched the greatest humanitarian action in its history, which is still taking place today. Within this framework, state and municipal institutions as well as church and civil society organisations joined forces to help refugees in their capacity. We have established several transit accommodations and relief points across the country, and we are constantly taking care of children's school and kindergarten placements. During the summer, we have given hundreds of children the opportunity to camp and help those who live temporarily in Hungary to earn income. We support the construction of schools and hospitals in the territory of Ukraine in Bucsa. As a relief shipment, we sent large quantities of food, industrial goods, bandages and pharmaceutical packages, we supply wounded Ukrainian soldiers in Hungarian hospitals, and we try to provide all the additional humanitarian assistance to those trapped in Ukraine. In addition to Hungarians and local Ukrainians, several relief shipments have been launched to the neighbouring Transcarpathia, which will also help the large number of refugees in the country. Unfortunately, we still do not see the end of the war, but the signs tend to point in the direction that it may remain with us for a long time. Hungary is on the good side of peace and stresses the importance of concluding a truce as soon as possible here in Parliament and the opening of negotiations. Despite the fact that we are alone within the European Union with this opinion, we must also see that the vast majority of the outside world shares our pro-peace opinion. Unfortunately, this war now has several victims of Hungarian nationality, who come out of the ranks of Hungarians enlisted in Transcarpathia and who gave their blood for a cause that is ultimately not about them. Dear House, From the very first moment, Hungary has clearly and firmly condemned the Russian invasion and expressed solidarity with the contested party. It is also in our interest that no one can threaten the security of our region and that we stand for Ukraine's solidarity and territorial integrity. At the same time, we cannot sweep under the carpet that Ukraine has taken a number of measures in recent years that have had a negative impact on minorities, including the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia. We expect Ukraine to abandon these measures and ensure the rights of minorities to use their mother tongue, education and other rights, but now we are going to return to these questions after the war has ended. In this spirit, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán supported Ukraine's accession to the European Union in the European Council on behalf of the Hungarian Government, and urged that negotiations be launched as soon as possible to promote the creation of the conditions for effective accession. We hope that Ukraine will be able to meet these conditions as soon as possible and join the European Community. We condemn aggression, give a helping hand to those in need, and urge peace to come as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, I think it can be concluded that the government has taken all possible measures to make Ukraine's refugees feel safe in our country, to help them, to give them a friendly hand. The greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history will continue as long as necessary. I would also like to express my thanks to all those who do not spare effort, money and energy in this work. Thank you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-02-28-35	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is, indeed, as you say, that we want to stay out of the war and carry no weapons, and I might return to that, but we will help Ukraine in all possible humanitarian ways and help those in need. If I may, I'd like to add to the list you've started. What does the Hungarian government do? [[10.20]] On the one hand, you mentioned that we took in over a million refugees. The Hungarian position is consequences, because in this war we are the first safe country, and we act accordingly, unlike illegal immigration, migration masses, where we are not the first safe country, and we act accordingly. Here we know our work, we take in all the needy, and indeed with families that plan to stay in Hungary for a longer period of time, we help parents find work, we help children to get to school, to get to the kindergarten, to stay in Hungary; they receive health care, so we help their lives here in Hungary. And the other direction of our assistance is towards Ukraine, which is where we're taking it. Here we continuously deliver and carry relief supplies, durable food, toiletries, supplies for the care of children. I was once able to drive such a truck to Viktor Mikita, Governor of Transcarpathia, whose activity and work we have to thank, he is a decent man. And then, for example, he told us to put more baby food in the next shipment, and then we brought more baby food, and accordingly we help those in Ukraine. We rebuilt a kindergarten in Borodianka; it was handed over a few weeks ago, in a simple way, started work a few weeks ago, giving hundreds of children the opportunity to go to kindergarten. We are renovating public institutions in Bucsa; the renovation and construction of a small hospital, the municipality, the post office will be completed soon. We are also building a school, helping care for internal refugees not only in Transcarpathia, but also in Galicia, in the counties of Lemberg and Ivano-Frankivsk. We are building a home in Beregszasz and refugee accommodations in Transcarpathia; we offered children's treatment and treatment for injured soldiers; we have offered children's recreation and camping for many years now, in the summer, as you mentioned. We deliver to Ukraine the amount of diesel needed for the annual operation and operation of 2.5 million vehicles, so what Hungary is doing in the framework of the biggest humanitarian action in the country's history could be long-term. Of course, we do not expect, nor do we, but it should be noted that unfortunately this is something that our critical Western liberal left-wing friends tend to forget to say so diplomatically. And may the honourable Member and this House also allow me to bring you here in addition to your assistance, although I have said it once, but I would like to stress here that the demand for immediate ceasefire and peace in Brussels is a red line. So they do not allow in any text an immediate ceasefire and peace talks to begin; they do not share this position, in other words, they do not want an immediate ceasefire, they represent a pro-war position. They want to continue the war to a military achievement they're expecting, which we don't know is coming at all. The other thing I would like to bring here is that, and it is clear from today and yesterday here in the Hungarian Parliament that the Hungarian left is both pro-war and sanctionist. This turned out, on the one hand, that the Hungarian left does not speak about peace. The word that peace, I do not know that it was spoken out of the mouth of Hungarian left-wing representatives during today's and yesterday's sittings, but the immediate ceasefire and peace talks certainly did not. And the fact that the Hungarian left is pro-sanctioned shows that the sanctions are not responsible for anything. The Hungarian Government and Viktor Orbán are responsible for everything [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] but sanctions [[Zsolt Gréczy: He voted...]] they are not responsible for anything, although it is clear from the facts and from all numbers and from all analyses that the sanctions are responsible for the runaway energy prices and the penalty is responsible for the runaway inflation. [[Zoltán Varga: Only in our house...]] If sanctions were not at least in the field of energy, inflation would be halved immediately. Please, my colleague, study the ideas and figures in this respect. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-28-36	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2006 XCVII on professional chambers in healthcare. a joint debate on the amendment of laws and certain related laws in an exceptional procedure. The submission is T/3065. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[Move, growl.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. With all due respect, my fellow Members, please take your seats. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the State Secretary that he has a total time frame of 25 minutes for the opening speech, the speech in the debate and the presentation of the possible closing phrase. I give the floor to Mr. Péter Takács, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-02-28-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Congressman Lords! Dear House, I think, and I trust, that we all agree on this, regardless of party standing, that one of the most important tasks of the current health government is to ensure a high level of patient care that is safe, accessible to all. This is also the need for the bill before us, although there will certainly be people here today who will take it away for short-term political gain. I would like to state that the interests of patients are above all else for the government, and we cannot stand by and let the Hungarian Medical Chamber abuse its power over membership and jeopardise the right of people to health care, which is a constitutional fundamental right. In recent times, many important decisions have been made on health care, but we have always taken particular care to consult and listen to their opinions with professional organisations before making decisions. We are convinced that we will only be able to make sensible and prudent changes to health care if we have a permanent dialogue with the profession. There have also been many valuable proposals from professional organisations that we have taken, and of course there have been issues that we have not been able to agree on. Such differences were, for example, the possibility of hijacking medical wages on the basis of objective criteria. But here, the government is not just an advocacy body, but the whole of society needs to be considered and taken into account. Even if we didn't agree with the Medical Chamber on everything, their suggestions and opinions have always been heard and considered with respect. On the other hand, the attitude of the Chamber is that if they do not agree with any of the government's measures, they will take action to endanger patient care, which is outrageous and unacceptable. Moreover, they are doing so in an area in which we were previously assured of their professional consensus. The Medical Chamber wants to punish patients for their dispute with the government, which a responsible government cannot ignore. Unfortunately, the Chamber clearly does not seek an agreement and has been playing a double game over the past few years. During the negotiations, he shows constructiveness and then attacks government decisions in the press. I would also like to make it clear here that there have been a number of discussions between the Medical Chamber and the Ministry in recent weeks. There have been ongoing discussions on the new type of on-call system, and MOK's proposals have been carried over almost without exception. In fact, the head of MOK's GP group previously considered the new contracts acceptable and wrote the following:. In the present form of the contract it is acceptable, thank you for our modified proposals and constructive thinking together. On the basis of the above, MOK can recommend the signing of the contract to colleagues. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, A few days later, the Chamber asks its members, in the framework of a delegation meeting, not to sign the contract and not to participate in the on-call care of patients, which I cannot appreciate other than the fact that the Chamber has started a political mood. It is likely that MOK did not trust that this call would be enough in itself, and therefore had already started to spread tentative errors in relation to the planned renewal of new on-call care and basic care. I quote a few without the need for completeness. The government forbids a regular general physician's order from 4:00 p.m. The reality is, on the other hand, that this has never occurred, and we even encouraged colleagues to coordinate ordering times according to the needs of the population and local customs. [[10.30]] In the morning between 8:00 and 4:00 p.m. you will be required to sit in the office. I've never had such an intention. On the one hand, some of the activities of the general practitioner involve home care, and on the other hand, for colleagues who have worked in the joint office with divided order times, this is simply impossible. The following statements. The expansion of the indicator system automatically results in the withdrawal of HUF 500,000 per practice. The truth is, however, that this year the basic supply register has increased by billions compared to last year, and since 2018, it has doubled, as has the average funding of practices. Several times it was claimed, without, of course, specific indication, that due to the planned transformation of the basic care, the municipalities were selling the practices above the head of the doctor. We have pointed out that this is not conceptually possible, because the right to practice is a person's right, yet the vice-president of the Chamber repeated this lie several times in public, thereby knowingly misleading membership. I understand that lying in the Gyurcsány government was common in the morning and at night and at night, but President Kincses is no longer a secretary of state in a left-wing government, but a head of a public body, so the medical community can rightly expect the Chamber to inform them objectively. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Like István Éger!]] Apparently, the central guidelines and many lies were not always effective enough, so they brought into ethical proceedings a chief medical practitioner in the county of Város, who is a practitioner, and who gave factual information to medical colleagues, and they made it clear that they would act the same way with strikebreakers. The fact that the Chamber openly threatens doctors who do not share the Presidency's views and participate in on-call care represents the darkest communist times. Ethical procedure is no joke. In the most serious way, it can lead to suspension or exclusion of membership, which in this legislative context means that the doctor will no longer be able to carry out medical activities in Hungary. The Hungarian Medical Chamber should not threaten to exclude a doctor from the Chamber to fulfil any of its obligations, as this will render the doctor's work impossible and endanger his livelihood. The open abuse of the Chamber by its power over membership endangers the fundamental right to secure patient care, which is unacceptable. The 2006 XCVII on professional chambers in healthcare. The preamble to the Act states that the purpose of the Chamber Act is to ensure that doctors contribute to the development of health policy, other decisions on health, and to improving the health care of the population, in line with their social weight and intellectual capital. By hindering the operation of the new on-call system and thereby endangering the health care of Hungarian people, the Chamber violates the basic rules of its democratic public body nature, it disregards its own objectives. With the above in mind, the bill proposes the abolition of compulsory medical chamber membership and the relocation of ethical liability rules. I ask the honourable Members to support T/3065. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-38	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech, Mr Secretary of State. I would like to inform you that you have a total time frame of 17 minutes for further comments and possible closing words in the debate. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. A total time frame of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-39	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/3065 has been discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 27 February 2023. XCVII of 2006 on Healthcare Professional Chambers. a bill amending law and certain related laws. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill presented to us by the Ministry of Interior aims to remove the possibility of abuse of power and the obligation of membership of the medical chamber and to transfer the ongoing ethical procedures to the Scientific Council on Health. However, it is worth pointing out in point 13 that due to the involvement of the members of the Chamber, the proposal will grant the Hungarian Medical Chamber the right to comment on the Professional Ethics Code, which will be issued by the Health Scientific Council with the approval of the Minister for Health. I believe that the Ministry of Interior considers patients' interests to be the priority and that the new on-call system provides all the conditions necessary for safe operation. The Hungarian Medical Chamber has abused its power, so we are initiating a legislative amendment in the interest of patients, because the right to safe healthcare is a constitutional fundamental right. The Hungarian Medical Chamber endangers the enforcement of this fundamental right when it abuses its power to pressure doctors not to sign on-call contracts. Ladies and Gentlemen, The abusive behaviour of the Hungarian Medical Chamber puts the patients' fundamental rights to safe care at risk, and I will therefore support the bill and the amendments received. I would also ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, To present the minority opinion, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. He's got a seven-minute window.
u2023-02-28-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The vast majority of opposition parties do not support this vendetta against the Medical Chamber. In the last five years, there has been only one case in which the Medical Chamber has initiated proceedings against a general physician, because during the Covid epidemic, it has made viral comments and has undertaken such public appearances, thereby actually endangering the safety of patient care. It is not the Medical Chamber that threatens the security of patient care, but the Orbán government, where doctors who have taken an oath of Hippocratic authority are now under threat from prosecution, and this political situation is produced by a police department, the police minister in charge of the rape organization. This rapid decision, which the Orbán government has just taken, is also threatening to give Hungary EU funds, as you promised earlier in the Brussels negotiations that there would be no such ad hoc decisions; decisions will be taken after long negotiations, negotiations and fair exchange of views, and here you will make such a decision in 24 hours. Besides, 30 percent of GPs are already missing from the system. From now on, you can expect more doctors to leave the field, more nurses, more GPs. It is possible that most of them will continue their career abroad. If anything, this threatens the safety of patient care in Hungary. This is a vendetta, for which, by the way, the vast majority of opposition parties will not vote in favour. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-02-28-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have a total time frame of 8 minutes. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Imre Pesti, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[10.40]]
u2023-02-28-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, At the end of last year, the draft law on basic care has been passed and will be voted on later, which has tried to answer two important problems: on the one hand, the problem of GP practices, because it is not a solution in any way, and on the other hand, I will answer the opposition speaker that there are nearly 200 practices with only 600 cards, and 600 practices with 1,200 cards, while the average number of patients is around 1500-1600-1700. Obviously, redefining and redesigning this is absolutely justified. The other serious problem was the issue of the on-call system. I have personal experience as a former general practitioner in the countryside and in Budapest that on-call care is not uniform and unsafe. Whether you like it or not, there have been frequent cases in which the on-call system was unable to reach an on-call doctor, or when we applied, we called the on-call centre, and many times no doctor provided information. Sometime in the GP's system, the GP's contract had an obligation to be on call. A lot of people, with pressure, have achieved that this has been removed from this contract, a lot of people have already resigned, and they do not want to take part in on-call care. There were private service providers, respect for the exception, they didn't work evenly, there were very, very many shortcomings. He has indeed endangered the physical and mental health of people and patients. What does the current system mean? In the current system, a general doctor actually has to take care of twice, but the emergency room only means that from 4:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., for which the doctor receives nearly 60,000, 55 thousand forints, so he is paid in addition to the much lower wages. The Ministry has done so by continuously consulting with the Chamber and its representatives. I'm shocked that you gave a written statement at the GP's office. [[Sic!]] its leader, that he accepts and supports the proposal for a new on-call system, and then something happened, and that he changed his opinion completely from today to tomorrow. There was a chamber leader who, in these negotiations, after agreeing on everything, said that he was only here as a private person while representing the Chamber. The hypocrisy that has taken place in the negotiations is outrageous, not a responsible attitude! The question is what this story looks like from the Chamber's perspective. Definition of the MOK:.The Hungarian Medical Chamber is an independent, democratic, guildlike body of all doctors operating in Hungary, whose members are intended to protect professional, moral and material interests. It operates as a public body in accordance with the principles of representative democracy. With its transparent operation and influence, the patient serves not only its members, but also its population and its health, in the spirit of the supreme law. The kind of new procedure that doctors don't sign on-call care contracts goes against this, the Chamber spit its own definition in the eye. That's what he's up against. The mission of the MOK is to preserve the profession, the purity of the profession, protect and build the authority of doctors and thus serve the health of the nation. You've broken your mission. Not only does it serve, it goes against its definition, it goes against its own mission, it wants to make health care impossible. Please, this is not a chamber, this is not how the chamber works; the chamber has become a political actor, whether you like it or not. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] This is not a representation, it employs a dictatorship against its own members. This is nothing more than humiliation of the medical profession. [[Zsolt Gréczy and Zoltán Varga intervene.]] The Chamber must serve its membership, not threaten them. What was valuable in the Chamber, what you, the Chamber, have done with this behavior, has destroyed everything. He devalued the chamber. It's not a chamber anymore, it's a political actor. I would like to read out from the statement of one of the Chamber Presidents, reflecting on the various press opinions:. If you are involved in the primary care, you will practically become a strikebreaker. Those who volunteer for extra work sell their future, your future for a bowl of lentils. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Zsolt Gréczy: Evidence?! Where did he appear?! Where?!]] Well, the lens will come out in this short speech under the dollar-left heading. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Now that makes it authentic!]] If you look at this whole question from the point of view of the medical oath, I will also read a few lines from it: "I swear that I will always conduct myself as a doctor. I use my medical knowledge to prevent diseases, to benefit the patients' physical and mental benefits, to cure their illness. I will not abuse the trust and the vulnerability of those who come to me. What a moral situation they put doctors in, who take this oath and then ask them not to take on duty! ? It's outrageous! What moral burden is this for a decent doctor today? Because that's what Hungary is full of. Technically, this chamber is deeply involved in the medical oath, the moral conduct of doctors. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] They're devaluing the medical profession. This actually drives a wedge between the doctor and the patient, the doctor and the Hungarian society. It's not the chamber's job. It's a political actor's job. The right to physical and mental health is a constitutional fundamental right. You're violating constitutional fundamental rights with that attitude, the Chamber, to be exact. And the question arises as to why. After the fourth two-thirds victory, which Western democracies helped with a dollar equivalent to four billion forints, you now have to pay off the repayment. What the Chamber is doing now as a political actor is nothing more than this... since you weren't very nice in the election, you've now started to pay it off. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] This is being repaid whether you like it or not. I know they lied in the morning, at night and at noon, the same thing goes on, there's payback. No one will give you $4 billion or $4 billion without asking for the price. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The Doctors?!]] They couldn't pay it back in the election, they're giving it back now. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Doctors received dollars?!]] It's unacceptable for you to do this. It is particularly unacceptable that, while there are loud DK comments here, DK's health politician, the shadow health minister of the shadow government, plays an active role in this process; I welcome Mr Komáromi. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Active?!]] Congratulations on your success. I would add that there was indeed a chamber procedure, there was a doctor here in Pest County who refused vaccination during the outbreak of the virus, the Covid epidemic. As shocking as he was, he was also a local politician linked to DK, starting in the colours of DK as a municipal representative. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Who?! Zsolt Gréczy: Who?!! Who?! Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Who?!]] In view of all this, it must be made clear that this is a clear political action. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] With all due respect, I'd like to ask all the representatives on the other side. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Tell me his name!]] that the integrity of the medical society should not be humiliated by forcing the Chamber to become a political actor. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Are we forcing him?!]] And unfortunately, I have to say that this Chamber is no longer a chamber, it is a political player, and this political player must not act as a chamber, but as a political party. I personally support this bill, and I ask my fellow Members to also support the removal of the Chamber's position on the health of patients, and to remove this risk. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Komáromi, the lead speaker of the DK Group, who spoke... [[For signal:]] First I got the signal to tell me about the pulpit, but then you say it in place. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[10.50]]
u2023-02-28-45	Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I could begin this comment with a Bible quote on the basis on which to build a house for a believer and a smart man, but I see that the Secretary of State and the Fidesz faction are building this bill on quicksand. It has been said a hundred times yesterday and today, and it will be said a hundred times that the Hungarian Medical Chamber is endangering patient care, the Hungarian Medical Chamber does not deserve to be called a chamber, the Hungarian Medical Chamber is blackmailing, threatening its members, and this is based on the fact that something has been misread in the newspaper. But let's start at the beginning. What was the first attack? I thought the Rogán Antal Ministry was a little more sophisticated than that. I was at the Assembly of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, but I didn't say a word, I spoke as much as Árpád Gogl, who was also at the Assembly of the Hungarian Medical Chamber for the simple reason that he and I were elected delegates for this cycle. I didn't think it was ever gonna come up with me blackmailing him and driving the chamber into my own political barge. The other: yesterday, in the Legislative Committee, it was said that a poor 65-year-old general practitioner was crying to one of the Members by saying that he had been blackmailed by the Chamber, that if he dared to sign the on-call contract, an ethical inquiry might be launched against him. [[Sándor Kovács: That's how it happened!]] Well, I'd like to say there's no such thing as ringing the doorbell, someone coming in and saying I'm the chamber. The Chamber is a body that takes decisions that are public and accessible to everyone, even Fidesz politicians. Such a decision was not taken by the Hungarian Medical Chamber. It's a bloody lie! [[Sándor Kovács: Someone has gone to threaten me personally, honourable Member. That's the problem. Zsolt Gréczy: Prove it!]] Whoever goes in there can't say I'm the chamber, because the chamber is a public body, and if there's a decision, that's what he really said, if there's no decision, he didn't say. Yesterday, Mr. Secretary of State spoke very dramatically about the fact that if the Medical Chamber terminates membership of a person due to disciplinary and ethical matters, then he is impossible because he cannot engage in medical and curative activities. I asked him: in the last five years, it has been a story of disenfranchising such a profession, and several factors have been involved here, which, I believe, have been the basis for this decision. One is that he was a county president, so one of the county presidents of the Medical Chamber committed an ethical offense. And the timing was perfect, because at the beginning of the Covid epidemic, he was one of the four experts who said there was no virus. So it was viral. This colleague appeared at professional meetings, they called meetings, they called meetings, they tried to convince the public not to be afraid, they didn't have to use masks, because there was no virus. And since this colleague did not withdraw his appearance as a warning, and, as I said, he was a chamber official, he was banned for six months. That's the five-year scale. So to be afraid of that is about as if a doctor was afraid that his otherwise well - manufactured car would lose its brakes, and from now on he wouldn't get into his car or start it. Next thing you know, why is this whole lie tsunami endangering patient care? You're not gonna jeopardize it, because the Medical Association didn't say that doctors shouldn't be on duty. You can look it up. In the document it says not to sign the new on-call contract, but to participate in the old on-call. So, technically, he wouldn't have been at risk for a day, not for a minute. This government, in the same way as the Medical Chamber, has virtually nullified all the rights of teachers or trade unions, with which it would try to improve the dilettant functioning of the government by means of intelligent, professionally supported measures, and in the interest of patients. For example, did Congressman Vejkey say or Mr. Secretary of State? That the doctor can't order after 4:00. This is not described or disseminated by the Medical Chamber. Or that you'll have to come to the office. The chamber didn't write that, it didn't spread. And that the indicator system is thus inadequate, otherwise all professions are said by a colleague of some understanding. And by taking back base funding, NEAK is pushing this indicator system too far, it practically doesn't give the doctor a chance to comply with this indicator system. But he doesn't leave, he can at most refer the patient, but that the patient goes to the clinic and I'll tell you something as a practicing GP, or that at the doctor's office, in the clinic, they enter this data into the ESZT, the doctor has no influence on it, but he's being punished. The doubling of the funding of the GP's and GP's practices since 2018 is actually sad. I wouldn't bring that up as an advantage or virtue, but as a mistake, because the medical salary increase made this amount. As a result, there is little money for the operation and operation of the general medical practice, and this little money has not been raised, even now, when the bills have increased to multiples. And the only government response was to point out to the municipalities to ask for a supplement from the municipalities. MOK couldn't abuse his power because he didn't have one. In fact, I think that the Chamber would have a right to establish, maintain and improve professional rules, but what Mr. Secretary said about consulting the Chamber, hearing and considering it, there was no trace of it in the draft laws and laws. If it had been shown, the board of directors of the Medical Chamber wouldn't have been dissatisfied. They do not allow professional colleges to operate, they do not allow the Chamber to supervise the organisation and quality assurance of continuous training. By the way, in every civilized country where there is a medical association or a medical chamber, this is usually not a government task, but a chamber's task. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I believe that Fidesz has been operating the Hungarian Medical Chamber for 20 years as a large-pattern focus group, because it is a homogeneous, well-trained, well-intelligent group, and what can be done with them shows confidence in politics that it is probably possible to do it with the country. Now this is the grinder that the Medical Chamber is in, so that all the accusations that have been made here and will be made, because the same sentences are said by Secretary of State and Congressman Vejkey, and yesterday in the Legislative Committee, the same words, sentences, and communications bombs were said, are simply not true. It would be nice to look into the fact that the Medical Chamber has made such a decision, it has appeared, or if it has not appeared, why these decisions have not otherwise appeared in a completely transparent manner, and if they have not appeared, then find a new reason, as the Chamber of Pharmacy and the Chamber of Professionals will be sure to express themselves more with solidarity from now on. [[11.00]] For teachers, it was enough to fire 13 teachers, and then the voice of teachers was a little quiet, who, by the way, did not demand a raise, but to improve educational institutions. Here, too, doctors do not demand a raise; if they demand a raise, they demand a raise for the workers because they would work together. I think that this will set an example for the other public bodies that I am sure they will not dare to speak, to criticize, and the message to doctors is, in fact, that if there is not a representative body that has shown, in the last two years at least, that it knows something, brought out materials of very good professional quality, and otherwise offered to the government, then the doctors alone, one by one, will certainly not be able to achieve results. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in opposition lines.]]
u2023-02-28-46	Welcome, fellow Members. The list of speeches will be continued by the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr István Hollik. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I am not a doctor, unlike many who are sitting in this Chamber, but I have asked for the floor because I think that this matter, this proposal before us, is no longer merely a medical professional issue. This goes beyond, it is a fundamental humanity, so to speak, a constitutional issue, because the Hungarian Medical Chamber has created a situation by blackmailing its own members, which is the right of patients to health care, which is a constitutional fundamental right, as the Secretary of State has said. Thank you very much for having at least enough correctness in Zoltán Komáromi to acknowledge that, yes, the Hungarian Medical Chamber told its members not to sign the new contract. That's how you said, Congressman, literally not to sign. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: There was no threat!]] Indeed, that's our problem, it's called blackmail. And the fact is, honourable Member, you know very well that there was a colleague who was informed by the Hungarian Medical Chamber by letter of the initiation of the ethical procedure. So if that's what you miss, that's what it is. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Why?]] Because of the specifics, and because this colleague leader informed the doctors how they could participate in the new on-call procedure. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: That's not why!]] And what makes the situation worse, in agreement with Imre Pesti, who points out that it is actually a party-political motivated action, and that the role of the president of the MOK in this whole case, the president, who wrote a professional resolution on the one hand, two years ago, and described the need to reconfigure the on-call system, and, on the other hand, during the negotiations and I hope that the Secretary of State will respond to it in particular, has a personal experience in this connection, the president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber has written in writing that the Government's proposal to reconstruct the on-call system will meet with the agreement of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: That's right!]] And after all of this, after this has been written down on paper, honourable Member, for a few days on why, you probably know that better than we have threatened the doctors, as you said, not to sign the new treaty. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: But this is not a threat!]] The fact is, honourable Member, that you can say that this is not a threat, but as long as membership of the Hungarian medical chamber is necessary to enable someone to practice their medical profession, you may say that this is not a threat. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: No.]] that's it, because if someone's being ethically prosecuted, [[Dr. László György Lukács: But they won't start!]] And you can't be a member of the Medical Chamber after that, and your right to medicine will be rendered impossible, and you can't cure me anymore. You can twist the word, but it's extortion, and it's from the side of the road, Your Honour. [[Dr. László György Lukács: What we get used to from you!]] So the very unfortunate thing is, I think that the Hungarian Medical Chamber and the fellow doctors can confirm this by a high-ranking public body, which the president has now ruined because of party political motivations. This authority was destroyed in an instant and generated a conflict and tension in the medical community that has not been experienced in the last thirty years. I think that this is unacceptable, and I therefore think that there is no other option than what the Government proposes in order to ensure that patients' right to health care is preserved and that the new on-call order can work: the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which, indeed, as Congressman Pesti said, has ceased to be a public body, should its compulsory chamber membership be terminated. This does not mean that doctors cannot decide whether to remain a member or not, everyone can decide, but the blackmail that the Hungarian Medical Chamber has done will no longer do. We therefore support the Government's proposal from the KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-48	The next speaker was the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Tamás Harangozó. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-49	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Threatening the safety of patient care is one of the main arguments that put this bill on the table. The only thing that does not come out of this proposal is that who and what is actually threatening the safety of patient care in Hungary, and that you really think seriously that the most important factor in the current health situation in Hungary, which threatens the safety of patients, is the Hungarian Medical Chamber itself. The fact that a government decides... It has already been said here that this has not happened in 30 years, the KDNP representative said about the behavior of the Medical Chamber. Yes, but it hasn't happened in 30 years that an existing primary care on-call system in this way and to this extent [[István Hollik: Then the president of MOK agreed!]] transform without consulting the profession, and even after a while in public against the opinion of the profession. [[Dr. Péter Takács: Not true, he wrote...]] That is not a lie, but that is the case, my honourable fellow Member. You're being forced through a... of course, you can say that we hold the government to invent things and beat them across the country, but I think there's a point where it's not very effective. Of course, it is a completely different situation if the government decides on issues that really do not directly affect people's lives and safety, and there may be important issues, but there are some that can kill people. For example, if the transformation of health care does not go well, it must be so, and the transformation of medical on-call care must be so, my fellow Members. And just give me a second to think about it. I understand that you consider the leadership of the Chamber to be a political actor, but not one or two people say what they say, but hundreds and thousands of doctors. Not one or two chamber leaders have called it up not since January, Mr. Secretary of State, but last year throughout the year, attention will be paid to the fact that what you brought into Parliament the other day and what you didn't bring in, only as a concept, the public has become aware of the health transformation, will cause more problems than there are benefits. You didn't take them into account, and you're going on the path you've chosen. On the other hand, there is a very, very prestigious social layer in every country, and especially in Hungary, the doctors who save us and our relatives' lives, and then we are very grateful to them all the time, and who almost unanimously told them to slow down, because the direction is not right. They didn't even consider what they said, Mr. Secretary. And in January this year, after the first and second wave of this transformation had been passed through this Parliament at the end of last year without being asked, and from January they started to do so, they said that if the government does not understand the nice word of the trade, it must be shown strength, because in their view and I think the point is here, Mr Secretary of State, and I also say to my fellow Member Pesti that this transformation is not only good, but also endangers the life and security of supply of Hungarian people. That's their professional opinion, and no one listened to them. [[11.10]] Or maybe he listened to them, just gave a damn about what they were saying. [[Noise in the pro-government benches. Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: They wrote it down! Péter Cseresnyés: There's paper on it! The president's ringing the bell.]] Good. Speaking of endangering the safety of patient care, my fellow Members and I do not want to say more about this bill, because they have decided to grind down a professional chamber in a nice European way, in a day and a half, destroy them, take them out, and not only in terms of being politically uncomfortable or not, but also in terms of their many professional functions associated with being a chamber, which you know will cause problems in months and years. But that's decided, so they're scamming the bill. But tell me one thing. How will this improve the health situation in Hungary? They really think that it will improve today, in Hungary, where it would be good to have some answers regarding the safety of patient care. Let me just give you one or two examples of the past period. Extremely narrowing the capacity of the pulmonary department of Uzsoki Street Hospital: reduced from 34 to 20 beds. At the premises of the Holy Cross Hospital in Kalocsa, the infant and child classes are temporarily suspended due to a shortage of specialists. In Szolnok, the infant and paediatric intensive care at the Géza Hospital in Hetény will be terminated, and then the infant and paediatric cardiology treatment will be terminated a few months later, mainly due to a shortage of specialists. In Orosháza it is terminated due to the lack of traumatic care, professional and funding. There are over 600 unfilled GP practices in the country. Compared to 2010, more than 600 people, including the number of general pediatricians, will be reduced by 200 during your administration. The wages of health professionals remain unbalanced and unsustainable. According to 2021 data, which was last seen, there are no workstations required for 1400 medical and 4500 operations. Hospital debt year after year on the ceiling. At the end of last year, it reached HUF 60 billion again, but after not completely settled, the debt of hospitals is already 21.5 billion in January of this year. How will the banishment of the Chamber solve these issues, since we are talking about the safety of patient care, Mr. Secretary of State? Do you think that grinding down the medical profession will help keep the existing professionals in Hungary? Or does anyone else pack their bags, and they're gonna get out of here, and they're gonna pull you away like a wild goose in a heartbeat? [[Dr. Péter Takács: That was under your control!]] I'd like to see the wild geese come back, we'd like to see doctors come home, the rest of them don't exactly give up their profession and go to work somewhere else, typically out of this country. All of this, for example, my fellow Members, is just a sentence about hospital debt: 60 billion dollars in debt..., I will say it once again, it will be 21 billion in January this year. At the same time, one hears that the MCC, led by Balázs Orbán, is the flagship of supply training, saving Hungarian public wealth from MOL's profits, if I remember correctly, will receive HUF 63 or 65 billion. For what? So they can buy 200 more sailboats by the castle? There's $65 billion over there, and there's no way to settle hospitals' debt? And you talk about patient safety? Tell me two straight sentences about how in Tolna County, in my city, at Balassa János Hospital in Szekszárd, you may have to wait 679 days for a hip replacement in January this year according to the data on NEAK's own website! [[Dr. Péter Takács: Definitely not!]] According to the NEAK website. According to the NEAK website! Mr. Secretary, I can't quote you from anywhere else. If the NEAK website doesn't work properly or if there are lies on it, take the necessary measures. And again, with the usual one-day legislation, you are endangering the arrival of EU money, as has been said, and you know that, because there is a rule of law against this country. One of the conditions was and you have agreed to make no mistake, and they have publicly said that they will stop these unconventional coup-like amendments to the law. We are now at the point where it is in the interest of the whole country to receive this money, but you, by the way, are putting in place such a bill, endangering tens of EU funds, possibly hundreds of billions of forints, that you have described in your plans, that you should spend on health care; and, by the way, endangering, among other things, the educator's wage increase that you claim is not coming because of the struggling opposition. No, Secretary of State, and my fellow Members from KDNP who are not respectable. If you now accept this in one day, and the result will be that Hungary does not have access to EU funds, then it will be net now that you will make sure that neither a teacher's wage increase nor a health development can happen in Hungary in the coming years. What I do not know is that the Ministry of Interior has received these two fine areas, education and health care, both of which are, by the way, specific sufferers of the last 12 years of government to fail or not, but they are marching pretty hard around here, Mr. Secretary of State. The fact that they're plowing in the board of health, the questions I've just said, they're not gonna have a good answer. It would be a good answer if they sat down with them, listened to the profession, agreed with them to implement a reform that doctors support. Of course, this would require a lot more money, I understand that, but I would suggest once again that, for example, the MCC review that the MCC must now have 65 billion forints on new castles and ships, hotels all over the country, or perhaps in this area. Today, the patient safety of the average Hungarian citizen, who cannot afford private health care, is already in danger today. I think you, Mr. Secretary, know this as well as we do in this room. And that this bill will only make this situation worse, we are sure that we are obviously unable to support it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-02-28-50	Now, Congressman László György Lukács, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Well, what kind of chamber do you stand against with a 24-hour martial law? We can ask the question. The answer is no, not the Executive Chamber, for example, which, as an organized crime alliance, has been called a criminal organization in the past. There's an opportunity to intervene. You know, right now, the president is waiting in prison for his case to take place, and Pál Völner, who regularly sits next to Secretary Takács, is one of his fellow suspects. Well, this chamber is full of skeletons from the drawer, but you don't intend a bill for this chamber, you don't act in 24 hours, you don't give them ultimatums, and as one person, the whole country demands that you act at this chamber! What other chamber they're dealing with with with a 24-hour bill? With the Hungarian Industry Chamber, which swallows 5,000 forints each year from every entrepreneur without helping them? No, they don't act against them either, but there is also a political actor there, as Imre Pesti said, because the chairman of the chamber regularly puts his nose into things that he can do, or he can't handle, or he's unsolicited, or he's giving advice to the Prime Minister, György Matolcsy, or anyone else. Well, they're not acting against this chamber with a 24-hour declaration of war, they're acting against the Hungarian Medical Chamber. Let's make a stop here. In 1990, at the time of the change of regime, the municipalities, which were self-organized communities of the people and formed for the management of local communities, were created to enable communities to exercise their rights best, to raise their rights in our constitution, in our legal system, the professional chambers which organised and conducted their own self-government, their own self-government, the proper functioning of a profession, the professional consciousness. It was the Medical Association, the Pharmacy Association, the Bar Association. This chamber council is about to be trampled on. The principle with which we all agreed in 1990 and in which a conservative politician sees how a country should operate, namely that it should be the responsibility of the individual and the community first, and that the state should take account of its expansion and respect for its dignity. [[11.20]] Now we're talking about you guys wanting to shred the Medical Chamber in 24 hours. It's called war. Given the fact that this is about the Ministry of the Interior, and I am sorry for the strong statement, we might consider that Minister Pintér is now shooting at the doctors, because that is what they call it. In 24 hours, without prior notice, since there was no social consultation, which Hungarians will drink again, the Hungarian people will pay for the damage when Brussels, as you say, will hold back the money for this reason. I can see where this game is going, Minister or Secretary of State. We know what they're trying to do. It is clear that the aim of Viktor Orbán is to lead Hungary out of the European Union at the cost of various debates, fights and malpractices, because that is the final point of everything. You are not arguing, you are fighting, you are fighting, you are telling people that you are watching, that is why we are quitting, and that is why we are approaching Russia, instead of seeing that Europe is our security. This is also the direction of the current proposal when it comes to acting in this way against the Medical Chamber. Otherwise, the SDS would like to lift your hat in front of you. They were the last ones to think in that direction. Now you're supposed to be from young Democrats to a community that's been ape-ing SDS in 24 hours. In a normal country, the fact is that a ministry, a secretary of state, wants to get along, and does the correct negotiations and negotiations with all the chambers of commerce until the end. You caught it, and in the first stalled case, a 24-hour ultimatum took care of the whole thing. I understand that this is the fashion of the Ministry of the Interior. We know this is how it's done, there's a system of command, what they say, you have to understand. But it's so far away, Mr. Secretary of State, and you know it better, it's so far from health care, doctors' personalities, vocations and freedom of profession. We all know that, the doctors feel it, and you know it. By the way, he was the head of the Residents Association, his representative, he knew exactly, and he saw very clearly how important such organisations were then, and how important the debate was, and how long a government, for example, had to give in to a debate, and how much space it had, and how thoughtful it had to be. No, you'll slam the door on someone in 24 hours, and you'll be executed. You can say it calmly: I'm driven by cunning fear. Now, I would like to teach these doctors this clear declaration of war, so that you dare defy us, that no matter what happens, we will grind you down in 24 hours, because we have two-thirds. They prove and even tell them that you have no conscience in this matter, because that is what it lacks, the conscience, Mr. Secretary of State. While the secretary of state is running out on you, we may still have woken up today that your secretary of state and the ministry, Viktor Orbán, had to divorce two of them. Neither the digitalisation of health care nor the use of money seems to be making good progress, and perhaps, if it is said, Bálint Szabó's pet has also been expunged from around the Ministry. Well, I would add that when you say how well you manage this area, you can see that there is no order in your own secretary of state, in your own ministry. There is no fair leadership of this healthcare, because fair political leadership would demand what we have all demanded and we have long demanded, and coincides not only with the profession but also with the position of the people to have an independent Ministry of Health, but your message is clear, it is easier to put these matters into a ministry that will fire and hunt down everyone who gets in their way within 24 hours. This move, by the way, destroys the dignity of their governance, destroys the dignity of public speaking, and does not treat the medical branch of the health profession with dignity at all. It is incompatible with any right-wing, conservative policy. Right-wing, conservative, some good politician doesn't do that, he doesn't do that, neither Zsolt Semjén nor your boss, Sándor Pintér. It proves to you that it's just a glaze, and they don't care at all about what's on the right and what's conservative. In fact, every single step of the way, you prove that you do not want to keep your promises to the European Union. It was clear that the demand and the intention was that everything was very serious, and that this was part of it, because it was a local government, a chamber administration, and a question of this scale is being asked for social consultation and social consultation. They may discuss it with the other chambers in the other sectors, the Hungarian health professionals, discuss it with the pharmacists, in case the example is sticky, perhaps suggesting something that they are happy about. But no, you will not do that, you will cheat everything in 24 hours, endangering the resources that we have given Hungary, which we have supported all along to arrive from the European Community. But you are breaking those agreements now and proving to me that you are otherwise unfit to comply with these agreements. While all sorts of accusations are being thrown into his neck by the Medical Chamber, I think they are largely unfounded and even completely unfounded, they are proving that everything can be arranged around their own house. Let me just tell you about today or three of the last few days. The President of the Republic's husband will be a lieutenant colonel after five weeks of training because that's how it works in this country. One of the MOL leaders' relatives is taking lighter exams at the university. Why not? By the way, there's been some disciplinary action going on there. Shouldn't we clean up there, too? Don't you think it would take 24 hours to salami off the self-administration of universities? Yeah, they've already done some of that, I'm sorry. Or there's the other one, right, we talked about the chambers, the Executive Chamber. Some executors could have gotten out of the whole case just because their mother was a constitutional judge. How many phones did you have to pick up for Toni and Barbie to get someone out of this case? Your message is clear. They are making tailor-made legislation, and the Hungarian Medical Chamber is the target of this, because you refuse to argue, refuse to agree, fire fire orders within 24 hours, and launch targets. What they're doing now is war. I'm used to you being at war with Brussels. They're wrong. There's an argument. It's not bickering, it's fighting, it's arguing. It's a thoughtful, consistent, right-wing, conservative politician. You're starting a war with the local chambers, this is the Medical Chamber. Wherever it's supposed to be cleaned up, they don't clean up. The only thing they're doing in this war is to justify their own ultimate goal. The ultimate goal is that you want to drive Hungary out of the European Union, even though it is clear that Europe is our security. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It's not too late to get rid of this bill. Come to your senses, think about it, put dignity first, and step away from this war proposal, and treat the Chamber as a fair partner, debater, and return to a fair and negotiated procedure. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-02-28-52	It is now up to Mr István Szabadi, the lead speaker of the Group of our countries. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, I'd put the bar question in perspective. Basically, we do not support the mandatory nature of chamber membership. Anyone who wishes to belong to a professional organisation should voluntarily do so in order to see if they can get help from a professional organization that can help his work, his other professional activities. Anno in 1994 is the annual XXVIII. Law made the membership of the Chamber compulsory for all doctors and dentists at the time, but this condition was set by XCVII of 2006 on professional chambers in health care. In fact, law changed it radically by not making chamber membership compulsory again. In fact, this also changed as of 1 July 2011, when Fidesz once again brought back the mandatory nature of chamber membership, forcing doctors and professionals into the Hungarian Health Professional Chamber. We could also ask why this amendment of the law is not included, for example, with regard to the Hungarian Pharmacy Chamber and the Hungarian Health Professional Chamber, because the effort shown by this amendment could also be projected on these chambers. If you really want to belong to a professional unit, you can do it, but you can do it freely, and you shouldn't have to do it. We can certainly support this in order not to make chamber membership mandatory. [[11.30]] I would also like to highlight how the government works, how it handles matters, because the justification of the Ministry of Interior is particularly exciting and remarkable to me. The Hungarian Medical Association cannot threaten to exclude a doctor from the Chamber in order to fulfil any of its obligations, as this makes the doctor's work impossible and endangers his livelihood. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, But let's see what happened during the pandemic. During the mandatory Covid vaccinations, the government ordered the general practitioners to be vaccinated through the Hungarian Medical Chamber. Those who refused to put it out have withdrawn their membership of the Chamber, and, failing that, they could not practice the next day. So then the government used the Hungarian Medical Chamber as a tool to enforce its will. Now that, perhaps for the first time in the history of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, you will stand up for your members in a case, let us now ignore how and how you stand up for a case, which is also the task of enforcing the law of the Chamber, you will be immediately replaced. The Moor has done its duty by binding the Covid, the Moor has completed its task, has no right to resist the government's invention, and so you can go. It's just a mirror to the operation of the government. We would like to draw attention to the fact that we are protesting not only against compulsory medical chamber membership, but also against compulsory chamber membership in general, as I have already said, as they are centrally collecting the compulsory chamber membership contribution to, for example, the recently changed bank account, which has become the majority property of István Tiborcz; it is about Granite Bank. We believe that it is indeed time, like the executives, to take a look at the operation of the various chambers. It is necessary to examine what and how much professional assistance they provide to the various professions and how much mandatory political governance it is, a mandatory contribution, for which the entrepreneur, the Hungarian worker, does not receive anything in return. So we think that it is essential to re-examine the membership of the Chamber and to abolish the mandatory nature. We can only support free and voluntary chamber membership, not its mandatory nature. An independent doctor, an independent nurse, an independent pharmacist, or an independent electrician can decide what is in his interest, wish to be a member of a professional organization, a professional chamber, but this cannot determine his operating license, as this is the case. Because if a chamber removes a person from the organization in an ethical process, withdraws his membership of the chamber, it also endangers his function. Obviously, it is very right, it must not work that way, so this effort is certainly right. Currently, OPFÖ and NEAK only fund and organize, do not deal with professionalism, but NNK also does not deal with professionalism. The question is, who will represent this profession? The current situation also shows that there is an increasing need to establish a independent Ministry of Health, which really needs to be led by professionals, not police, lawyers, politicians and who knows who else. So we can support this amendment because we do not want everyone to have to belong to a Chamber on a compulsory basis, to pay membership fees, not even a small amount. Let me just say that the Hungarian Health Care Professionals' Chamber has to pay 16 thousand forints for this. Why? Those who think they want to belong to this organization should belong, but should not be required, and should not be obliged to pay this fee. Thank you very much.
u2023-02-28-54	We now have Congresswoman Timea Szabó, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-55	Thank you for the floor. Crying in the pro-government ranks is a compliment to me, as you know, my honourable members of the government, that they will finally hear the truth. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Which is to welcome you to Comrade Stalin's system. They've already started to cancel photos of teachers, invalids, homeless associates, orphan children, just in the way, or who doesn't have enough words to speak for themselves, now they're gonna start writing doctors off the photo. It's a cheap, vile Stalinist pace, honourable Secretary of State, what you're doing here. All of a sudden, you think that you shouldn't have a bar membership right now, you're acting like it's a professional question, and it's just a mean, petty revenge because doctors don't let you break and blackmail themselves. The doctors aren't blackmailing me, the Fidesz government is blackmailing doctors. Just so they can't lie unscrupulously, it's just news that the State Police Bureau of Investigation is investigating several counties, not doctors, but because general doctors have been threatened to sign the on-call system contract. They didn't blackmail you, they're being blackmailed, and do you really have the nerve to say that you're doing this for the sake of the health system for the right to a safe patient? ! Comrade István Hollik. Virág said here in his speech that he believes that the MOK is over because it acts as a party. Well, let's say, as an opposition representative, I say that this is good news, because if you act as a party, then 90 percent of the 50,000 doctors who are currently members of the MOK are, therefore, opposition doctors; this is not such a bad proportion. [[István Hollik: The leadership, not the doctors!]] But if you think that's true, then look the doctors in the eye and tell them that they're partying and that they're rebelling because you think they're opposition. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you have started a war against patients, against patient care, against the whole health system, when the Ministry of Health was abolished shortly after the start of their governance in 2010; this is how you started. At first it became EMMI, didn't we, the Ministry of Human Resources, never thought we'd cry back Minister Zoltán Balog, but at least at that time there was some sort of professional attitude or effort. For the record, Secretary of State Takács, Zombor [[Dr. Péter Takács: Gábor.]] Fideszes' fellow Member resigned from the position of Secretary of State in the same case. Follow your example. At least in Gábor Sombor there was the honor that when the workers were fooled for the longest time, they didn't keep their promise, he resigned. We're also looking forward to your resignation, because it's a dirty thing that you're doing right now with health and you're putting your name on it. The government is literally threatening doctors. But what is the result? The consequence is that patients are threatened by the Fidesz government. Patient care is still in ruins. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you may be surprised by the fact that you have to wait two or three years for a hip replacement surgery. [[Dr. Péter Takács: Congresswoman, stop lying.]] Or a spinal surgery. [[István Hollik: That's a lie! Dr. Péter Takács: That's not true!]] Then you can really look at the NEAK page. Then take a look. Then you'll probably ban the NEAK, too, because that means they're lying, they're on their side. But as ordered by the KSH to distort the data, it is likely that NEAK will now be instructed to do so. [[István Hollik: You're lying again!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Threatening health care, endangering patient care began 12 years ago when you took over the steering column. They keep telling the workers how to raise their wages. [[11.40]] A beginner without a diploma gets 120 thousand forints a month. 120,000 forints! Then after 30 years you can also see the official billboard, it goes up to 150,000 forints. Every time I show you the pay sign, just so you can see: after 30 years of employment, 30,000 HUF goes up for a professional's gross salary. [[Dr. Péter Takács: That's not true!]] Shame on you! Secretary of State Takács promised that from January a 35-50 percent wage increase could be expected by the workers. Compared to this, it's been canceled again, again and again by the laborer's salary increase. [[Dr. Péter Takács: I did not promise that! Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] And you're saying there'll be a raise in July? Why doesn't your raise ever last? Why doesn't that fall behind? ! It has already been published in the press that the salaries of ministers, Prime Minister, State Secretary and Members are being raised again. Why not the therapist? [[Dr. Péter Takács: Not mine!]] The raise in July: you're saying it's gonna be a 20-percent raise? Where else is July? I'm sure the penalty inflation will take that, too, right? Only your salary increase will not be taken away by sanctioned inflation. [[Intercoms from the Fidesz benches.]] Fellow Members! They're not gonna say anything, are they? Fidesz banter, once again: we take it as a compliment, because we know we're disturbing you by telling you the truth. [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] The fact is that what doctors protest against the signing of the on-call system is probably not being fired by the squatters sitting here, by the way, about what they are arguing about, about the fact that elderly, retired general doctors will be forced to travel for several miles within the walks, travel up to 50 to 60 kilometers as pensioners, taking on an on-call system. We told you that months ago it wouldn't work. Do you know where this is gonna lead? For mass termination. 'Cause you guys might cancel your mandatory bar membership, but by the way, this isn't about mandatory bar membership; it's about your petty revenge. But they can eliminate it, but the doctors will still quit. 600 GPs are already missing from the system. Several years ago, the EMMI reported in its own report that by 2024 half of the country would not have a general medical care. [[Dr. Péter Takács: That's a lie!]] It's not a lie! It's in the EMMI report, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Péter Takács: Lies! That's a lie! That's a lie!]] The fact that you guys talk a lot about lying doesn't make it a lie. Understand, this report was written under the ministership of Zoltán Balog, which told us that there would be no general practitioners, that entire regions would be left out. Now, with this law, if you force this through, the doctors who are already retired will definitely resign. When the idea of nationalizing the specialist clinics came along, it was the same thing. They wanted to nationalize the specialized clinics so they could reschedule the workers and doctors. We started collecting signatures on the III. people came in the district and crowded; and there, the chiefs of the clinic, but not only there, Obuda, elsewhere, they said that more than half of the people who worked there were retired, if they were forced to transfer them to another place, they would resign. Do you know what's gonna come of this? It's not about getting revenge on doctors, it's about getting revenge on patients. You're not gonna be a doctor. [[Dr. Péter Takács: How many orders were there? How many conducts have there been in the last three years? Sándor Font: Is this how you do it?]] It may be possible to pretend that, as Katalin Novak's husband becomes a lieutenant colonel in five weeks, he becomes a lieutenant colonel, he may still be five weeks, and he may also get a degree in brain surgery, but I suggest that he start the surgery on you, not on the patients. Let's see if we can replace the doctors like this. Go to such a good crash course, all of you here, if it's fidesz, everything can be done; it's unscrupulous to steal, but not to deal with health. I brought it because they wouldn't believe me if I just said it. Do you know what this is? [[He's showing me a graph.]] This is a graph of cancer deaths in the European Union. Now, guess what country is on the top? In which country most people die in proportions, with cancer per 100,000 people in the EU! In Hungary, indeed. Here is Hungary, and this is the EU average. Shame! That's what they did to health. But unfortunately, we're doing the same thing with cardiovascular deaths, stroke deaths, myocardial deaths because you're constantly pulling money out of health care. And yes, for you to say that there is a great need for EU funds, and now you will do everything you can to comply with the EU's demands for the rule of law criteria, one of which was not to submit anything more in an exceptionally urgent procedure without consulting at least the stakeholders, you will say yesterday that we are debating and voting on the day that you will then kill the MOK, the Hungarian Medical Chamber. But once again, you are not killing the Hungarian Medical Chamber, you are killing the Hungarian patients! I'd like to read it because fortunately, we still have time for the chronology of the whole case. Dear Secretary of State, On 3 October 2020, the Miniszer President agreed that the development of health transformations will take place with the involvement of the Chamber representing Hungarian doctors. On 27 May 2022, State Secretary Péter Takács, in his first public speech, promises that without the approval of the profession, the health reform plan will not be presented to Parliament. Once again, 27 May 2022. 13 July 2022 He presented the main directions planned in oral consultation with the Chamber Presidency. They've indicated what's not acceptable. For example, the agreements with the Prime Minister have been broken. By the end of August, the Secretary of State promised to forward the plans for the medical transformation. September 26th. The Secretary of State is going to a soccer game, and the photo uploaded to Facebook shows the health conversion plan left on his desk, which he didn't send. On September 28th, two days later, the Chamber asks when they can get this, a plan for the health conversion on your desk, but there will be no response. November 2nd. They shall receive the draft with a five-day deadline for its opinion. This is obviously a very comprehensive and indeed a time-limit that respects their views. The draft introduces appearance solutions: it allows unlimited control; it mutilates basic wages; it does not increase the wages of the workers; it reduces public health. On 7 November, the Hungarian Medical Chamber replied 170 pages to the five-day deadline, from every county, indicating that the critical points of the law were unacceptable. On 9 November, the Secretary of State will be informed of the same problems at a personal meeting. On 14 November, the GP announced that it considered the concept to be undeveloped and in need of correction. November 21st. They're sending amendments from the Medical Chamber, but you're submitting them to Parliament in the same way. On 29 November, Gyula Kincses, president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee, says that the bill is not acceptable to the profession. He requests that the amendments be introduced. December 1st. The costs of GPs are enormous and urgent; they send letters to Sándor Pintér. On December 6th, 8,000 colleagues from the doctor's office announced in a letter the convening of the extraordinary delegation. Eighty-five percent of doctors would give up volunteering for extra work. I mean, you don't think there's any organization besides yours that can blackmail 85 percent of your membership, do you? You don't think that's true, do you? The thing is, if 85 percent of an organization thinks in the same direction, they probably don't go on the freeway in front of traffic, you do. [[11.50]] By letter dated 9 December, the President of the Republic was asked to return the law. On 17 December, doctors will receive regulations again with a seven-day deadline, 115 pages of criticism, and their concerns remain unchanged. We started in May 2022, and now we're at December 2022, when the Medical Chamber tells us over and over again that there is a problem, it won't work, because your restrictions and restrictions will lead to a massive medical termination in a country where more than 15 percent of doctors are already missing. On December 17th, the seven-day deadline for comments, on Facebook on 22nd, is served by State Secretary Péter Takács, at the end of which it is stated that there is no substantive amendment, because the Gazette is already in the printing press. Secretary, are you serious? ! Can't you change a bill because it's already been sent to the printery? Comrade Virág, really, that's the verdict, isn't it? I heard it in The Witness. On 17 January 2023, no comments from the Chamber were made among the respondents to the Government's website. Then who's blackmailing who, who's considering whose opinion? Now, all of a sudden, everyone's got a very urgent phone call to make here in Fidesz. [[Dr. Péter Takács: I'm listening.]] And even the yammering stopped, precisely because you can't react to that. These are facts! It will be on the government's website on the 17th, where no comments from the Chamber will be made, and on the 27th, a strategic agreement proposal from the Secretary of State will be received, but this will contain proposals contrary to transparency practices. The Medical Chamber informs the Secretary of State that they cannot allow transparency; they also write that national representatives will meet on 4 February, where they will draw up their immediate and long-term proposals. They also comment on the indicator system, which was basically considered to be flawed, by the way. On 29 January, the GP discussed the content of the on-call contract, especially not the health problems previously reported, not the on-call system. They write that they are able to recommend it with the exception of the ban on declarations; Gyula Kincses thanks the Secretary of State for the information and for consulting colleagues on the contract. 4 February: following inconclusive discussions, the legislation and regulations adopted have led the representatives of doctors to decide, by a 94 percent majority, that joint action by the medical community is needed to promote a fair, safe and patient-centred health transformation. So 94 percent of the Medical Chamber of 50,000 doctors are united. So you're saying the doctors are being blackmailed here? Well, they're 94 percent of doctors. They didn't have to be blackmailed, because a minority didn't dictate to a majority, but the vast majority thinks the same thing that we say here and we think you're destroying and destroying health care. But I have some bad news. Ladies and gentlemen, We know you're already in private care. [[Péter Cseresnyés: How do you know that?]] Let's just say I have a tip. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dr. Péter Takács: I've never been to a masked doctor in my life.]] But the fact is that you may be able to pay for private care right now, but the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, you can go to diagnostics. I just got a call from a friend of mine, wanted an MRI on the state board. You can guess when he got an appointment for state care this January. [[Dr. Péter Takács: The general 14 days.]] Aha! In your opinion, Secretary of State, this was a joke: you had an appointment for February 2024. You can make a random phone call to any of the clinics and try it; you went to private care and paid 90 thousand forints as a pensioner for a piece of MR scan because you guys degraded diagnostics in a mean way. But you can go to private care. [[Dr. Péter Takács: Report to the surgeon, report to the maintenance officer.]] But do you know what the problem is? That they won't cure cancer in private care. They won't! The thing is, you may be diagnosed, but there is no cancer cure in private care. So you and your family, especially your voters, are going to suffer very, very much what you're doing to health. [[László Tasó: Is that what you wish for us?]] I do not wish, but unfortunately, my fellow Member László Tasó has always had a text understanding problem, but it is not my problem, but it will be your voters' problem that they will not be able to cure them in public care because of you, because it is constantly being dismantled. Shame on you! Even though you often lie about being blackmailed by doctors and the Medical Chamber, you do this, you, the Fidesz, Viktor Orbán and Sándor Pintér abuse your power and threaten the chances of healing the Hungarian people. Shame on you and withdraw this despicable bill immediately. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-02-28-56	Before I give the floor to Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy, who will be the lead speaker of the LMP Group, I would like to ask my fellow Members that, if they have a negative opinion on what the speaker has said, they should press a button and be kind enough to explain this in a speech. Thank you very much. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2023-02-28-57	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is, however, an opinion that I think we all agree with: our goal is to increase the Hungarian medical society and vocation, to regulate the state, the community and our clients. This quote comes from Lajos Markusovszky and comes from 1857. He practically announced the policy, the policy of which the Medical Chamber, among other things, outgrown, that there was a need for an effective and meaningful medical professional organisation to protect the interests of doctors and patients, as the Hungarian Medical Chamber has changed. The Hungarian Medical Chamber did not exist between 1949-1988, so there is no medical chamber in non-democratic times, usually there are no chambers. In democratic times, such as after the change of regime, the Chamber was re-established; then the question is always whether it is mandatory or has powers. This debate today is also very interesting from the point of view that the relationship between power and doctors, power and patients, power and all of us is also highlighted, as and so it was after the change of regime, when there was some kind of amendment, some major change, or some conflicting situation occurred, when the compulsory chamber membership was terminated. When I say, in quotation marks, the chamber system is normally, traditionally operating in Western Europe, although in Hungarian health care, it is unfortunately difficult to talk about something, peacetime, otherwise it is quite rightly mandatory. It is no coincidence that there are professions where compulsory membership is required, and so is the medical profession; but this is also the case when we talk about notaries, veterinarians, engineers or certain agricultural professions, where there is a need for transparency or a kind of professional control that comes into contact with the particular profession, how should I put it? it serves its well-being and serves its access to quality services, and I believe that I trust the Hungarian Medical Chamber to serve and serve this purpose to this day. [[12.00]] There were interesting statements here in the debate, which I think is worth responding to. Imre Vejkey spoke of the abuse of power that MOK abused its power. This also highlights the question that there is a power, a government power, or a state power, and there is a power far less than that, a kind of professional power which is now accused of abusing his power. By the way, since 2010, we have seen three ways in which Fidesz government will react to other powers or his ideas. It encounters a critical, confronting power. The first method of occupying this organization should be a professional organisation, a representative organisation. So this booking, when the given chamber, the given professional representative organisation, remains, is filled with, but not with, members who strongly sympathize with the governing parties, with leadership. Within the system of national cooperation, this is a very traditional way of enforcing Fidesz's power interests. There is another way, they like to apply it, they use it, they have used it before: when we create another organization, and then we have such an organization. We see examples of this in other policies. Let me give you an example: a little motivated by this, we are talking about another area of expertise, when we had conflicts with trade unions in the field of education, and that, no, a National Teacher Faculty was established. We remember the Hoffmann Rose period. And there's the third method, perhaps the most conflicting method they're choosing now, when they're really head-on against a particular organization and pull the carpet out from under it, in a legal sense; so when they're practically trying to plow this particular organization. I also said this yesterday at the evening session of the Legislative Committee, on 5 February 2023, State Secretary Péter Takács said that he did not speak with the medical community, not with health workers. [[Dr. Péter Takács: That's true now.]] The conflict is with the Hungarian Medical Chamber; and this can be followed up in the press as to how this conflict has developed over the last few weeks, months, there have been messages back and forth, there have been sword changes, there have been press conferences. I would just ask the Secretary of State whether, if there is this conflict between the parties, the 24-hour bill before us, as we are practically negotiating within 24 hours, we accept whether he considers it a kind of conflict management technique. Well, that's a little far from, let's say, an assertive method of conflict resolution, but maybe I'm wrong. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to declare this conflict to be resolved, dealt with and resolved by this bill. If the parties are in conflict, it is a very interesting conflict management technique that one party pulls out the carpet from under the other side, attacks the other party, changes the regulation of the other party rather than, say, trying to resolve this conflict in a different way. So how are we doing with conflict resolution? There was also a statement that the Hungarian Medical Chamber was threatening patient care, so they wanted to paint such a picture. We also know this method well from the power policy of the system of national cooperation, the stigma and the method of training scapegoats: when there is a conflict, it is always necessary to point a finger at someone, always to appoint a group for which there is a problem, which makes it impossible to move forward, who hinder, prevent the wonderful plans of the government, who hinder progress. In fact, the MOK is currently designated as a scapegoat, obviously because of them we have a problem with general care, obviously because of them they cannot switch to the new on-call system, otherwise everything would be perfect, the regulation would be perfect, the funding is perfect, there are no capacity problems, but there is this nasty Hungarian Medical Chamber, which makes it impossible to move forward, so they should be designated responsible. Of course, in order to sell this whole policy, there is also a need to name a casus belli, right, conflicts always break out somehow. There is also a caseus belli: here they refer to some ethical procedures, some ethical procedures involving doctors, and to the fact that these doctors, these doctor colleagues, want to be made impossible by the Hungarian Medical Chamber, and in practice they want to prevent them from doing their job. Because of these conflicts, therefore, a full law must be amended and the regulation of an entire organisation changed. It's a typical casus belli, actually. What is very interesting is that when such problems and conflicts arise, these 24-hour bill proposals come in 24 hours, they are presented, negotiated and adopted, but when they are faced with problems that I think are real problems, we somehow do not see these bill proposals, let alone 24-hour bill proposals, but we do not see any bill for 168 hours or even several years. The real problems here are that the average age of the Hungarian general physician is nearing 60 years, or even exceeds, this is a serious problem, and when we discussed health last fall or at the end of the year, we can call it a half reform bill, that was what the debate was about, then we could not answer the question of how there would be more general doctors, how capacity would grow, how more healers would be, because by dragging practices together, we could not solve capacity problems, we could not solve capacity problems, not only in the countryside, but also in the capital, it is slowly very, very difficult to find a home doctor colleague, and then we did not even talk about specialists or clinics. When we talk about real problems, we don't come up with the bill that there are almost half a hundred patients on a day's day for a general physician, or that there are more than half a patient on a day's day, that there are very, very busy GPs; we don't come up with the bill when we talk about a patient's average of 10-12 minutes, or today maybe not enough in a GP's office; then we don't have the wallet suggestions, that practically the GPs, orders can't be reached by phone, because the phones are ringing all the time, the doctors are very, very busy. We don't really see the solutions to that. So I would ask Mr Secretary of State that, in addition to the fact that we are talking about this power policy move now, because it is clear from the power to show off power, to resolve a conflict from power, to legislate a criminal law at the expense of a much smaller, much weaker power, Mr State Secretary, also to talk about how the transformation of the on-call system is currently taking place, and how the problem is that in Hungary there are few doctors, capacity problems, unfortunately, the medical community is also characterised by ageing, that there are few young colleagues, what will happen to us in 5, 10, 15, 20 years' time, who will heal us. And here I would like to ask my favourite question: how is the nationalization of the specialist clinics, what is the portfolio's position on this, what is the government's position on this, and what is the position of the Fidesz Members on this? If we are talking about health, obviously, because the different levels of care are built on one another, I think it is not from the devil to bring up this question of how the nationalization of the specialist clinics is, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-02-28-58	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I understand the anger of Szabó Timea, because they've taken over the election. [[Szabó Timea: You are so weak!]] We have also experienced that you hate us more than you love your country. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Woe, what a lousy phrase they are!]] But that's no excuse for what you've just said. I quote you literally... [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Health!]] Tamás Mellár, please hear what your fellow Member said: you are not killing the Hungarian Medical Chamber, you are killing the Hungarian patients. Are you out of your mind, Congresswoman? [[Interview from Fidesz: Yes!]] So I understand that he hates us and is frustrated by the election result, but there are limits that cannot be crossed in the building of the Hungarian Parliament and in a plenary session. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: This does not apply to him.]] Shame on you, Congresswoman, for throwing yourself into such lies and such hateful sentences. Shame on you. The other is that our fellow Member Luke spoke about the discussions [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: He is not here!]] and the lack of them. Szabó Timea also talked about the negotiations. One of them did not mention anything specific, Congresswoman Timea Szabó... [[Szabó Timea: Too much!]] Part of it, but he kind of missed the point. [[12.10]] So the State Secretary for Health, the Ministry of Interior, conducted all necessary consultations, and the Hungarian Medical Chamber wrote in writing that the new on-call system could be accepted. There is writing about it, Mrs Szabó, you forgot to mention this, you failed to mention it. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] And you consider it a fair professional procedure to describe to BM that everything is all right, and then in two days they will come out to the public and say exactly the opposite, and threaten doctors not to sign, dare to sign the new rules on duty. I think that the negotiations were not mocked by the government, but by the Hungarian Medical Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-60	For a two-minute speech, Mr Szabó Timea also applied for a dialogue. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-61	Dear colleague Hollik, you're lying. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] The fact is, because I have just read that Secretary of State Takács, at the request of MOK, said that unfortunately there is no longer any possibility of amending the law, because the Gazette is already in the printing press. [[Dr. Péter Takács: It was a meeting beyond the deadline.]] I've read word for word, date exactly how many times the Medical Chamber has indicated no, so the on-call system is not acceptable. [[Dr. Péter Takács: We weren't talking about the on-call system.]] How could they accept the on-call system that they already knew would not be able to carry out the transition when there are not enough doctors? The thing is, you're trying to make an iron circle of wood. If there aren't enough doctors, there won't be enough doctors to take over. So you can try to blackmail, lie, threaten, as you always do, and that does not make the health situation in Hungary any better. The fact is, my dear fellow Member, István Hollik, that I will show you once again. [[He's showing me a graph.]] Unfortunately, yes, most people die of Hungarian cancer. So if you like it, I'll say it again: yes, this system, the health system that you operate here in this country, kills the Hungarian patients. This term may be too strong for you, but not for anyone who dies for their family. Don't mess with the rhetoric, but focus on curing Hungarian patients to create a real chance of healing, because unfortunately we haven't heard a word about it from you. Thank you.
u2023-02-28-62	Three people from the Fidesz Group have applied for a two-minute comment, and I can only speak to one of them in this round, so I give Mr Sándor Kovács the opportunity. In the next round, of course, the other Members will also have the opportunity to speak. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-63	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear House, We started out with an alpha and an omega in today's debate that his threat from the Medical Chamber to pressuring members. Let me remind you of a story from 2006. Between the two rounds of the 2006 parliamentary election, I was mayor, and the then Minister of Finance and the President of the county assembly held a meeting that practically the MSZP won the election and asked everyone to vote for the MSZP if they were fidesz or not fidesz, if this is not the case, then the sources for development can be said goodbye. This went on after 2006, between the two elections, this communication exercise was called Veres-terror. And as far as the perspective is concerned, we Fidesz mayors and MSZPs didn't take it as a threat. I understand, DK's, that your soldier, your party soldier, who got a phone call in a 98 percent agreement that I took part in in my own county, and everyone in the Medical Chamber agreed with the call, and we didn't mix up any other pressioning and extortion positions, so you might get a phone call from someone, or you'll get all the dollars. [[Demercation and interruptions from opposition ranks.]] And turn around, please. I understand that this is not a threat to you, but yes, who I represent and have been contacted by doctors are afraid of the Chamber of Doctors. This is your Alpha and your omega, you're threatening and lying to me the whole time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Varga: No Gyurcsány? What's going on?]]
u2023-02-28-64	We will return to the list of speakers that have been announced. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman József Kovács of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-65	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been so much going on here that, if I may, I would like to go back to the original content of the presentation, because, in truth, I have lost one or more of the threads here in connection with the comments. [[Dr. Péter Takács on his way to Szabó Timea, leaving?]] However, in the context of this agenda, it is the subject of today's presentation on the transfer of the GP's on-call system to the health system. The point of this is that this is a very important part of the whole health system's transformation, and in this connection, after these discussions have taken place and the material has been completed, many other than the Medical Chamber have received this material. In addition to the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the Hungarian Health Association, the Pharmacy Chamber, the Hungarian Residents Association, the Hospital Association and the Democratic Trade Union of Hungarian Workers in the Social and Health Sector have received it. So everyone could respond to this question and respond, as Szabó Timea mentioned. These positions and opinions were agreed with the wallet, and the wallet included in the proposal submitted to Parliament the eligible proposals it deemed appropriate. In my opinion, the Hungarian Medical Chamber was then given a privileged opportunity, because the President of the Chamber, Minister and Minister of State agreed on this material in the three of them, and then agreed on it in a sentence here: the transformation of the on-call system and its necessity through the Head of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, and approved those aspects of the organisation of care during the conciliation. After that, the discussion did not stop, because the above mentioned meetings were also held with the Hungarian Medical Chamber's GP working group in connection with the restructuring of the system, and an agreement was reached whereby an opinion was drawn up that both of them were in compliance with this planned system of on-call conversion. A few days later, the Hungarian Medical Chamber issued a manifesto. This manifesto has a somewhat pejorative interpretation for me, I do not know what the manifesto means, but it meant that the general practitioners should not sign these documents. This is extremely dangerous, because if you do not sign the documents... I will refer you back here to what my colleague Sándor Kovács said. In connection with the 2006 transformation, I was the director general of a county hospital, and if we had not signed the reform of the health policy of SZDSZ, the Chamber had not otherwise been involved at all, then the health care operation would have stopped and we would not have been able to care for the patients. Of course, we signed it in agreement with the owner, and we tried to do everything we could to make sure that was acceptable to the best of our knowledge. In my case, this meant the dismissal of 250 employees, who, to this day, were still unable to be replaced in the care system. There has been a lot of talk here about the fact that the health care system is now under the control of the Ministry of the Interior. Indeed, there have been many attempts to transform health care, but in my opinion, it is not the ministry that is responsible for the supervision of health care, but the content of the work and the material that is put here on the table of Parliament. [[12.20]] Returning to the on-call system, everyone has already said DK, MSZP, from all sides that the average age of GPs is very high, high, the supply system is stalling and, where appropriate, does not work, so the State Secretary, the Ministry, also had an obligation and suggested that this on-call system should be adapted. By the way, the president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the current president, agreed earlier, many years ago, that this transformation must be carried out, and there is no other solution than to involve the rescue service in some form in this basic care on-call system, because the current GP system with an average age is very difficult to perform the basic tasks, but the provision of the on-call system itself in this current composition is simply impossible. This is why it is proposed that there really should be an on-call supply period in such district centres from 4:00 to 10:00 p.m. after the work done, two of which are, by the way, two! such an on-call service may be proposed, asked, where appropriate by appropriate procedure, to enforce this, but I also know that the wallet has a pretty serious idea that, if possible and possible, older colleagues will try to relieve even the burden of this task, so that they can perform their basic tasks well. The Medical Chamber then, as I mentioned, formulated its manifesto and, at the end of it all, called the Chamber Assembly. At the Chamber Assembly, as Congressman Komárom said, he also attended, and Minister Gogl, who are members of this Chamber, and then I spoke to some of the participants who were there... now what percentage? I didn't measure percentages, but many of the delegates were completely confused with the question of why they were actually called together, what was the point of this. Because the composition of such a body, the composition of the whole, obviously also has a significant impact on or influence on the outcome of the resolution or vote. Accordingly, following the presentation, a resolution was drawn up to ensure that GPs do not sign the new employment contract. On behalf of Congressman Komárom, it has been said that yes, but in the old system, they can continue to do their work in the system which at this moment is not truly operational, we all know that it is not or works, but it is very, very difficult. It was also clear in this presentation that everyone knows what I am talking about under a certain number, under a certain number of cards, but even this can be exempted rather than economical, it simply doesn't work properly compared to having 300 cards or 2,300 cards, it's obvious, and it's supposed to get the same thing in the care, and I'd rather say it's in your pay. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: This is a mistake! This is a mistake!]] Because one thing has to be taken into account is that the government and the government have recently carried out a type of wage development in relation to the increase in the wages of doctors, and they have respected all the elements of this wage development, also on 1 January of this year... I know what Congressman Komáromi said, higher number of cards means higher revenue, it is obvious, but in the case of such a shortage, the very low number of cards is not realistic anyway. It is therefore necessary to modify certain zones as far as possible. If, therefore, we ask in a manifesto, in this, in any way, the employees not to accept the contract, we press them or ask them to do a job in which they must refuse their medical oath, not perform their task, so this is not a realistic request from the Chamber. I go on: there is a part of this issue that has been formulated by the care of children, that some well-spoken GP colleagues have done that they have not signed this contract, but so to speak, they have concluded a voluntary, non-profit contract, or they have signed an agreement, in which they did not want to take over the bar, but they also wanted to continue the care. The Chamber has also looked into these questions. In my opinion, the Chamber here has very seriously confused its own operation with the functioning of the trade union, because, by the way, the refusal to work and the provision of health care are not constitutional rights, and the trade union's activities have the right to strike, which is constitutional law. So we need to steer the disgruntled ones in a direction that they're trying to enforce. I believe that in this case, after the Chamber has seriously broken the rules for which it was created by the founders, there is therefore no other method than a solution in which we offer the option to terminate voluntary membership, to remain a member of the Chamber, to continue to pay the chamber membership fee and to do so voluntarily. I can fully agree with the opinion of the Hungarian Movement on the fact that compulsory membership and compulsory payment of membership are highly questionable. By the way, in today's newspaper, it was published that the Pharmacy Chamber was also opening its wings on this, what was said here; it was said that there were opinions in the board of care. This may indeed trigger a new way of thinking on the part of the people, but this opportunity must be guaranteed. [[Turning to István Szabadi:]] And just the congressman, who has just come into the room, he said that independent membership is acceptable, and compulsory and paid membership is, without any very questionable exception, everything... let's say we are talking about the public health board chambers here. Accordingly, I believe that this proposal is certainly eligible, and this is a solution now, and we hope that it will also be in the further stages of the transformation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-66	State Secretary Péter Takács asked for the floor, so, of course, he has the opportunity to speak in the debate. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that you have 17 minutes and 17 seconds. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to react very briefly in this debate, because I will end up doing a longer reaction, but I would like to share a story with the honourable Members and gentlemen. Here, by the way, Congresswoman Timea Szabó asked her questions, and then ran away and I am sorry that I cannot answer her, because, apparently, she does not care about the facts, only the lies she has told. I'll tell you very briefly. There's been a lot of accusations here that it's all been decided in 24 hours and that there hasn't been any dialogue and I don't know what they are. That's not true. The dialogue with the Medical Chamber did not even begin in this government cycle, but when the Operational Staff came under the Ministry of Interior, and in May 20 the Minister of Interior asked for materials from several professional organisations, and the Medical Chamber gave them materials, and then in May 22 when the portfolio was placed under the Ministry of Interior, President Kincses wrote to Mr Sándor Pintér in a letter to Minister for Home Affairs, these are their suggestions: there is no global shortage of personnel on the medical line, there is a shortage of labour in some fields, and licenses giving partial competence are appreciated. [[12.30]] Reinforcing care: professional care capacities need to be developed within social care. Effective improvement: removing social care from health is necessary in order to remove unnecessary burden on the care system. Infocommunication technologies: to support applications using artificial intelligence. It is appropriate to establish a central reservation system linked to the date of surgery and examination. It is proposed to upload image data from imaging devices across the sector. Recognizing real costs in financing is essential. A system of legal interests based on quality and performance indicators, based on performance-related pay, should be established instead of an illegal motivation, a system of gratuity, based on quality indicators. These are the medical board's suggestions. The number of permanently unfilled practices is constantly increasing, but in this area a rapid improvement can be achieved by eliminating unsustainable, small-scale practices, pooling and adjusting the practice boundaries. And I could keep going. From the time that they were all incorporated into the health care renewal package, it is reckless to say that we have not taken into account the Chamber's proposals. And one more thing about timing. The congresswoman summarized this very well, but left out one thing. Until a nice October afternoon, we were assured by the Medical Association. In the summer, President Kincses sent me the message: "Dear Peter, the Chamber misses the new Semmelweis plan again. You told me that today, now you just have to write it down. Congratulations, it's a very, very good direction. Perhaps Mr Kovács referred to the fact that at the end of October we received the President of the Medical Chamber with the Minister of Interior, before the submission of the law, for nearly two hours, and, except for all the points in the bill, he said that the Chamber of Medicine agreed with them. That one was the downside hijacking. He said he couldn't support it as a public body, as an interest organisation, but that's why we're not mad at each other, all the rest is fine. Then, from Tuesday night to Friday morning, something changed. It's worth asking what it is. Because the Medical Chamber has sent a circular to all 38,000 of its members to make a health change without us? The Ministry of Interior doesn't negotiate with the Medical Chamber. I asked President Treasures what to think of this when the three of us sat on Tuesday night. In his first reply, he said that the circular was published not by the Medical Chamber, but by the Journal of Doctors. I told you this was very funny, because I sat on the board of the Medical Chamber for ten years, and I knew that the publisher was ours, so I want you to tell me what we're telling him. Then the answer was: he talked to us, the Minister of the Interior, and to me as a private person. How can a public body leader be taken seriously after this? Then came the 160 pages of opinion tsunami, when all the county organizations' opinions were sent to us in bulk, sometimes containing conflicting parts. In any case, there was something that we could put into the bill, and there was something we couldn't do. Then came the on-call system, and the chief of staff of the GP and one of the deputy chiefs were sitting in our house. For ten days, we have agreed on the text of the on-call contract. By the way, I was routine, because I asked them if they're representing the Medical Chamber, or if they're here as private people, because after that, you're careful. Fortunately, they represented the Medical Chamber and declared on behalf of MOK that they could accept the contract and recommend it for signature. They had two conditions. But let's get this straight, we didn't impose a contract. There is no obligation to conclude contracts, because we are living in a rule of law, and that is a civil law relationship, not an elegant contractual obligation. However, the general practitioner has a statutory obligation to participate in the on-call system. This means, and this is what the County Collegiate Leader, who threatened the membership, correctly explained that there is no contract obligation, but if the on-call lines cannot be drawn up with the volunteers because of the chamber's action, the county chief doctor has the legal right to order participation in the on-call service, no more than two times a month. And when this order takes place, the same rights and obligations will be owed to the colleague as the one who voluntarily contracted the rescue service. In the same way, you will receive an hourly fee of HUF 9,000 on weekdays and HUF 11,000 on weekends, and everything else will be provided by the OMSZ, assistant, tool, driver, car. Everything's covered by emergency services. On a Monday, there was this agreement, and at the ominous Saturday emissary, the same people who gave it to me in writing as a public body leader to recommend it for signature, expressing that the general practitioners do not sign our proposal for an on-call contract. How can a public body leader be taken seriously? Then the delegation meeting took place, where László Szijjártó Győr-Moson-Sopron county collegial leader... [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: President of the County Chamber!]] Yes, county chamber president suggested that we not travel here to the proposals of the State Secretary and the Ministry of the Interior, but to overthrow the government, because as long as there is the Orbán government, there will always be Takács and Pinters. That's what's on the record. Then they checked in with me for a professional meeting, and so much for not consulting with them. I have received the chairmanship of the Győr-Moson-Sopron County Medical Association. There was the president, there was the vice president and two other colleagues. Then, let the Members hold on to me at the beginning of the meeting, they told me that they had come as private people, because the Presidency had adopted a resolution that only members of the Presidency could negotiate with the Ministry of Interior and asked that they should remain secret, that they were here with me now. He's a public body county manager! How am I supposed to take this seriously? Nevertheless, I spent two and a half hours talking to them about professional matters. When all the charges of this type have been settled within 24 hours, it may not hurt to know what political motivations were in the background, and long weeks and months of work by the Chamber to be in such a situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-68	We will return to the speakers that have been announced. In this context, it follows from the DK Group that Mr Zoltán Varga is coming. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I see you're desperately trying to puppet him that what we're sitting here for is a medical, professional, health issue. Some people here are trying to revolve the opposition by saying that we are making a political issue of all this, even though that is not the case. You're sitting here to bestially execute a body. I'm sure you know that Russian joke, but you have to know, because you take it all from the Russians without thinking, including gas for multiple times the world market price, when Iosif Vassionovich Stalin visits a kindergarten, and a little kid accidentally kicks his little red dot ball at comrade Stalin's. Comrade Stalin is surprised, thinks a little, and then, to everyone's greatest surprise, returns the little ball, caresses the little kid's head, smiles at him, even though he could have been shot. Well, about the same thing happens here and now to our little Stalin impersonator. I'm saying pretty much because, in fact, there's a huge difference. This little guy's gonna get shot right now. We're not talking about petting a bookie anymore. It's an uninhibited, petty vendetta, bestial, a ritualistic government murder in a few days, the answer to the kicked little red dot ball. Yes, you, your dictatorship today, are at another level below, because this is no longer a matter of tactful eye-rolling, no matter how much the government explains it, it is not a professional decision or a political decision embedded in a professional decision. [[12.40]] It's not important here to give orders and to you, to enforcers, to appearances. This is a quick, ruthless and inexplicable murder, and, of course, some ill-conceived pedagogical explanation and purpose. That's what happens to anyone who dares to stand up to you, dares to defy the madness we call the Orbán class today. And I have to say that, as Chairman of the Committee on Welfare, I am not even surprised at the way this is going: without the committee, the government has chosen the fastest possible route in an exceptional procedure, even if it stands on the weakest possible legs, and it would fit into a film called "The Witness" rather than into Parliament's walls, hidden behind the cover of a lie, since, as I said earlier, one of the most prestigious professional organizations in Hungarian society, MOK, will be executed in just a few hours. Actually, there's nothing else here, there's nothing to see here, and you've reached a verdict without trial. Vengeance is obviously sweet, and I suppose everyone in Carmelita is now sitting back satisfied:, we have shown them well! I suppose that's what you think, but perhaps you're making the biggest mistake of your lives, ladies and gentlemen. It's nothing but a fatal misunderstanding because you're being shot in the leg right now. Because I understand that your system thinks and now has been repeatedly stated, where more harshly and more subtlely, that anyone who is not with you is against you, and they are acting that way. If you say anything, you'll get your head smashed, and then there'll be silence and order in this country, but ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge mistake. It's not gonna work that way! They are wrong, like all other dictatorships that have failed legally, because they need to know that the law of impact-versus-effect applies not only in physics, but sooner or later in all societies, because by abolishing compulsory chamber membership the government only seems to punish the medical community. It also seems to punish the MOK, as the ritual execution of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which raises its voice against the crazy government's health policy, which is already putting patients and healing at risk, will probably not silence the MOK, the medical society or the entire Hungarian society with this message, but will give new energy not only to the protestors working in health care, but also to all members of Hungarian society. It is difficult to understand the transfer of ethical procedures because it is entrusted to a government body that does not have any relevant set of rules, if, of course, there is any doctor left in this organisation and they will not leave. As I have just said, you are about to be shot in the leg with the bestial execution of the MOK, because it is hard to believe that while the abolition of doctor's compulsory chamber membership is a government remedy for health problems, while stone carvings, ballet dancers and perhaps shoemakers continue to have to pay for something for which they do not actually receive anything, at most a nice photo with László Parragh's picture, as he stretches at one of the party state events and kisses the hands of our national Andika. Besides many others, I would not really like to be Mr Parragh right now, because the first domino has just been decided, ladies and gentlemen, and the process can easily undermine the whole system and Mr Parragh himself for free. It is nothing more than petty and transparent political revenge from Carmelita; nothing more, nothing less, which may not be silenced and regulated now, but perhaps it is now that the resistance against which you have just presented this bill is being brought to life: that Hungarian society will wake up to consciousness, and between it, as I said earlier, one of the most prestigious Hungarian Medical Chambers. What you've just produced, what you've just produced in the Orbán course, is just another step towards a doomed failure. This is nothing more than an open war against the Hungarian intellectuals, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that the Orbán course, you openly execute those doctors and organizations, but even the members of the Hungarian society who dare to speak, really brings back the darkest Stalin times. I can tell you that this is clearly going to be a failure, but you've been looking for it, and you deserve it. Thank you very much.
u2023-02-28-70	I would like to inform my fellow Members that the KDNP Group has indicated that it will give 20 minutes of its time to the Fidesz Group. I would also like to change this on the display accordingly. [[It's happening.]] We will continue the debate with two-minute speeches. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman László Tasó, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-71	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, With regard to Timea Szabó's speech as lead speaker, I would like to say that what was said in her speech was outrageous and shocking. He accused the Fidesz congressmen of going to private doctors. He also said that he had a bad reputation for us, for the Fidesz Members and their relatives, that cancer was only diagnosed, that they could not cure it. So you're suggesting that he wants us to be in this situation. [[Zoltán Varga: That's not true!]] Which is an unprecedented sentence and an unprecedented approach to this matter that we are discussing. You have to look at the record, you have to listen to it one more time. He said it was bad news for us and our family. Such impertinent, outrageous sentences are rarely heard, by the way. Shame! I wish him good health, by the way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-28-72	Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy, LMP, has also applied for a two-minute speech.
u2023-02-28-73	Thank you very much for the floor. I remember that Szabó Timea talked about the bad news about the decline of Hungarian health care. I think it's really bad news, which is why it has to be done. I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for illuminating the forms of this conflict in such a direct and informal form by publishing this text file. I believe that this, as such a source of conflict-history, will be an important subject of future conflict research. But anyway, we are talking about what kind of solutions this conflict has, and that you have chosen a power policy solution. I've been thinking about how the chambers actually come together, how binding chamber membership is regulated. This one has two directories. There is a historical, organic, organic development that there is a requirement for chamber membership, transparency, transparency, quality requirements, quality assurance and other aspects of the medical profession, and there are professions where such strict conditions do not have to be met, because the particular professions or professionals operate properly without it, typically, say, in the commercial or industrial fields. Well, it's interesting that this is happening the other way around in Hungary. The membership of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry is mandatory, and now the membership of the Medical Chamber will not be mandatory, so this has been replaced, because I feel that you do not represent this kind of organic, organic development, but rather apply a power policy aspect, where, if there is no conflict, the membership of the Chamber is normal, Europeanly binding, that if there is a conflict, and this was before 2010, and now it is the case in 2023, then membership is not mandatory, then they will cut down on the professional organisation. This is not a policy principle, but a principle of power. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2023-02-28-74	We will go back to the speeches that have been announced. In this context, Mr Lajos Mészáros is coming from the Fidesz Group. I give you the floor, please. [[12.50]]
u2023-02-28-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I spent 37 years as a doctor in health care, leading 12 of them, and on 1 January 2007, when I became a strategic director of a hospital, I had to face the fact that in the months before, so at the end of 2006, it was a legislative tsunami that prepared a very harsh health reform. This included the multi-insurance, private insurance model, hospital daily allowance, visitation fees, mandatory safe deposit, so it discussed and regulated a number of issues that greatly triggered resistance, I say from my own experience. Regardless of political views, this triggered the opposition of doctors. With the same date, on 1 January 2007, the Gyurcsány government abolished the compulsory medical chamber membership. Then what are we talking about? Why are you guys hovering now? I suppose it was a liberal decision, doctors are big boys, adults, they can decide whether it's worth it to be a member of the medical chamber or not, and the membership of the medical board ensures that they pay the forty or a few thousand forints today that it costs or not. I think that's what's gonna happen now, and that's not gonna make it impossible for the Chamber, because the Chamber can continue to function, keep its members, who will make a statement, who will remain a member, and who will not be a member, and they will decide that, big guys are doctors, there is no need to fear them. The whole decision isn't about the doctors, it's about the board. Even the chamber itself is a good, positive body and useful, but the politicisation of it is untenable. Indeed, the Secretary of State is right that he does not mean well, he does not want positive reforms for the benefit of patients, he wants to decide on a government, that is clear. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-76	Once again, two-minute speeches will follow. First, Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-77	Madam President, Dear Parliament, In the last few minutes, many things have been said by the opposition's stick-making health politicians, just not the point. No one wants to terminate the chamber. The chamber still exists. As said here by our fellow Member Lajos Mészáros, who is a doctor, he said that he sees medical society as an adult society. So do I, and I think that every doctor can decide whether to volunteer or not to participate in a chamber. This volunteering will be an important element of the future. So there is no problem with the existence or non-existence of the Chamber in this respect. What many have just said has become politicised by the Chamber, and this is a professional organisation, on the part of a representative organisation, if it does so unilaterally and does not function in accordance with the rules of professional and chamber law, then the medical society will decide whether or not to participate. And as for the transformation of health care, a number of the chambers supported it, and then something happened. We don't know what happened, maybe they went to the rally where they were supposed to, and then they changed their position, and they started threatening the members. And what does that entail? That's a loss of job. That is why Parliament had to act so that this would not happen in the case of a number of chamber members. I believe that they are concerned about the president of the Chamber, because he was the one who voted for the compulsory membership, if I recall correctly, as an MDF politician, in 94. There were also two subsequent discussions on compulsory or non-binding membership here in Parliament. And maybe he's worried that 12 times the minimum wage, maybe if there's less membership, there'll be no funding. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should talk about the point: the bar stays, the membership stays if you want. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-78	Our next two-minute speaker is Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, from the LMP. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-79	Thank you very much. This is exactly what I wanted to point out that this proposal clearly plays to keep as few members of the Chamber as possible, because exactly why it had to be included, that at present doctors will have 30 days after the entry into force of the law to declare that they want to remain a member of the Chamber. So why do they have to take such a proactive step? If we need the Chamber, if we think it's important for the Chamber to have as many members as possible, then why do we have to take this step? This is very, very similar to the time when, for example, they wanted to take people out of private pension funds, and there was a deadline where I should have said that I wanted to be a member of the private pension fund. So this clearly seems like such a stepping stone, by the way. And what my fellow Member Zoltán Kovács says is that the Chamber has become politicised, how interesting it is that it does not occur to you or you in connection with the president of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. So László Parragh can function as an educational, economic and commercial shadow minister, he can make various statements detracting firefighters and educators, it is not politicalization and not politicisation, but what is currently the conflict between Secretary Péter Takács and the leadership of the Medical Chamber, which is a politicized thing. So, please, straighten up, one is politicized, the other is not politicized, so what's the explanation for this, so what's the logic behind this? Thank you very much.
u2023-02-28-80	Mr Zoltán Varga, from DK, also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Indeed, what we want to do with voluntary or compulsory chamber membership can be a valid debate between us. So this can be a real debate. I believe that this debate exists, because we know very well that, in relation to the Chamber led by Mr Parragh, they are collecting money in such a way that, in fact, apart from the fact that Mr Parragh's salary can be well paid, he does not provide virtually any service. We can talk about that. If this comes before Parliament, it's a legitimate suggestion, it can be a professional decision. But the fact that you're taking someone or someone out of the chambers right now is specifically to get revenge because they dare to speak for something, brand them and put stigma on them, that's what quotes dictatorships. Many said that they missed the professional contribution. Allow me to read you a very short reading. It's been written to your patients by a GP these days. .. Dear Patients.. I don't think as a doctor I have anything to do with politics, and that's not what I'm doing right now. I would simply like to say that if you have not taken the healthy lifestyle seriously so far, take it seriously now, because unfortunately politics is driving Hungarian health care in a direction where it will completely collapse. No one will be able to treat patients in time, often even now. But it's gonna get worse, the way things look now. I ask you, my dear patients, not to be sick. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Here's the point, here's the reality, here's what you're trying to deny, here's why opposition politicians are being held accountable. How did the health care professionals put it? Because of the actors or their opinions, it's already out of order. This is the reality we're talking about. That's what we should be talking about, not about wanting revenge on certain public bodies, just because your boss doesn't like to hear their voices. Thank you very much.
u2023-02-28-82	Now there are only two-minute speakers on the monitor. So I can speak to Congressman Attila Stojka from Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-83	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I think that there should be thanks and respect for doctors and all the workers who work to get patients on the road to recovery today. At a time when we are involved in such a debate, we really need to look at the intention of amending the law. Basically, the intention is for doctors to really work for patients to recover. Compared to this, we have seen that the participation of the Chamber in recent changes to health care, more specifically to the needs, has been clear: they have participated in the negotiations and it has become clear in the discussions that they agree. [[13.00]] Then one day, someone shows up, but we can name the person who practically appears as the shadow minister of the left, and for some reason, the chamber changes its opinion. It has also become clear to us that, where the left appears, there is clear chaos, division and a process of loss of credibility. The problem is basically that you disagree with this amendment because we would give doctors the right to decide how and how they wish to participate in the task. These restrictions, which you would have tried to maintain, would have hindered this, and would not have been, I see that ensuring the proper quality of patient care. By coming here so quickly, as you put it, the government has made this type of legislative amendment, it has done exactly what is most necessary, because the government's fundamental task is to: [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to ensure that the difficulties that could endanger patient care are resolved. Please, if you are already called democratic on your behalf, allow this democratic right to the doctors. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-84	Congressman Zoltán Komáromi, from DK also asked for two minutes. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-85	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I don't understand, or perhaps I understand, the story of his own members: they are now building everything on threats and blackmail. By the way, I do not consider the fact that there is paper that the Medical Chamber has agreed or supported the text of the contract to be incompatible with what the Chamber has issued in its statement entitled "Visual Experience" after the assembly of delegates, because this should be read through. In this, they actually have three demands: the increase in labour wages, the strengthening of GP and dental care in such a way as to keep the law of practice as such, because before that, the Secretary of State said that they would pool practices where there are fewer numbers than the size of the farm; I heard it myself twice. [[Dr. Péter Takács: You're confusing districts and practices, Congressman.]] Whatever. This was misunderstood by the general practitioners, and they found the right to practice valuable. This would have been the request and that the territorial fee should not be subject to the indicators at this time, since this is not a practice, and it is not really tested that the data from the specialist's office would be obtained that would otherwise show care. Then there is a paragraph about offering two types of pressure techniques: general practitioners not to sign the on-call contract, and not to general practitioners. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to terminate the voluntary overtime contract. So that doesn't mean [[The president's ringing again.]] That they were sorry, a sentence challenged the quality of the GP's on-call contract, but they wanted to use it as a tool for their three demands, and the Ministry did not respond to that.
u2023-02-28-86	I would ask my fellow Members to pay particular attention to the time frame. Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy is the next two-minute speaker.
u2023-02-28-87	Thank you. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, after the adoption of this bill, doctors are treated as adults, because we have now learned from Gabriella Selmeczi that this is one of the newest laws of treating doctors as adults, or, after they have granted the democratic right of doctors, because it has also been said that they are giving doctors a democratic choice, there comes a next law by which, say, my right as a patient is granted the right to see a doctor. So you're gonna be a doctor in five years, 10 years, 15 years? How do they deal with the fact that the average age of Hungarian general doctors is now over 60 years? How do you deal with a situation where you don't get enough time for a patient during an order period? How do they deal with the situation that if I try to reach my GP on the phone, if people try to reach their GPs on the phone, they will not or will not always succeed because the GPs are overwhelmed? So, after providing adult treatment and the right of democratic choice, let us call this law, how will these issues be dealt with, which are also important issues? Thank you very much.
u2023-02-28-88	Our next two-minute speaker is Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-89	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wanted to respond to my fellow Member, Zoltán Varga, but he left the room just as Timea Szabó did: he provocatively attacked the Secretary of State and the pro-government representatives, and then he left. So to get to the point, this is the amendment of the law that the government has submitted, not revenge. This word is in the mind of revenge, Zoltán Varga and similar fellow Members, and they think so, so they accuse us of this because that is how they think about politics and the world. We have also heard from the author here, and we have also heard from the lead speakers that this law has been submitted because the presidency of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, not the doctors, not the members of the Chamber, but the Presidency of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, and specifically its president, have endangered health care, and the government has very rightly felt that it is necessary to act quickly. This is the reason why this amendment was submitted by the government. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that when Mr Péter Takács last commented, he explained in detail how, in what way and with whom he agreed when someone left as a private person on behalf of the Hungarian Medical Chamber or as an illegitimate person. I do not know that as a private person, such a success could be achieved by meeting with Hungary's Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Health and consulting for two hours; this is a great achievement for a private person. But aside from the joke that Secretary Péter Takács told me how, how he agreed with the Hungarian Medical Chamber, I cannot say whether it is pathetic or ridiculous. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-90	Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy asked for two minutes again, LMP. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-91	Thank you very much. By the way, Gabriella Selmeczi has given me yet another thought to the discussions, because it is obvious that as an individual it is a great achievement to get to a minister and to negotiate for two hours if that is the case. But this is precisely the disadvantage of building a centralised policy system, whether in health care or education or in the social system: when everything is managed from the same centre, it is indeed the right of citizens to reach decision-makers, to reach executives, it is very, very bad, because, for example, when institutions, educational institutions, health institutions, clinics operate in local government reservations, in many cases, citizens have much greater opportunities. And if we talked about treatment as an adult and the right of doctors here, then we can also talk about citizens' rights, so citizens have a much greater right to make decisions about their care from a budgetary point of view, professionally, to seek them personally, knock on the door of the office of the Member, deputy mayor and mayor, as there is a much greater opportunity to do so than to contact, say, Mr. State Secretary or Minister of the Interior personally. Then these systems may have an advantage here, but we're not going this way, because the municipalities are taking away the institutions, centralising and centralizing. A little parallel can also be drawn between what is happening now with the Hungarian Medical Chamber, because in the last 13 years it has not been the strengthening of these organizations and forms of organisation, which are voluntary organizations, grassroots organizations, whether it is citizens or professional, I think we can agree on this, but the opposite steps are taking place. [[13.10]] I'm still waiting for answers to my previous questions, by the way. [[Dr. Péter Takács: In closing!]] Obviously, Mr Secretary of State will address them in the closing remarks, but I am also very curious about the opinion of my fellow Members. How are you going to be a doctor in five, 10, 15 years? Thank you very much.
u2023-02-28-92	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate against the remaining timeframes. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi reporting.]] Mr Zoltán Komáromi applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-93	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say a few things, which I think was a mistake, as my fellow Members have presented. For example, I did not want to draw conclusions from the experience of a month on duty. I asked for the results of a year-and-a-half pilot, but I didn't get it from the Ministry. Ethical complaint. The complaint is not an ethical procedure; it must otherwise be assessed by the first-level ethics committee. It will be easy for you, or now it will not be difficult for him, because there has been video footage of the collegial leader in Győr-Sopron County, who doesn't know, now knows not the general doctor-elect, but the state employee appointed by tender. He actually blackmailed his own colleagues by playing with their contract of duty, which will ensure their livelihood if they don't join the emergency room. I got the video. I didn't see it. I was briefed. [[Dr. Péter Takács: Definitely not!]] You could look at it, but this rapid legislation probably doesn't give you the chance. [[Dr. Péter Takács: What's it to you?]] The word "Stormbreaker" comes from Dr. Szijjártó's pen, and it was a request for residents not to be strikebreakers, because otherwise, the general doctors cannot do this pressure exercise. By the way, all I want to say about empty practices is that there are a lot of walks where I simply can't mathematically imagine how colleagues will look after twice a month if this system works. Rétság, Sárbugadi, Devecser district, Gönc district, district Pannonhalma. There are fewer doctors, 40 percent of the doctors are missing anyway. In addition, combining practices is again a risky thing; if you don't give them funding and there won't be quality care [[Dr. Péter Takács: Yes, we will.]] [[Dr. Péter Takács: Yes, we will.]] Then you will not actually receive that money (Dr. Péter Takács: But there will be!) It's like what your colleague gets for two days a week on call. Thank you.
u2023-02-28-94	Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to speak again. I do not see an applicant, the united debate... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Once again, Congressman Zoltán Komáromi asked for a normal word. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-95	Thank you. I thought I could go over the time frame, so I stopped, and I thought someone was gonna say something. Back to the empty practices: what Matthew Kanász-Nagy asked was a very realistic question. According to the current corps, there are six GPs under the age of 30 in the country. By the way, the Chamber knew about 5, I told them who was the sixth to take over my practice on February 1st. But it's also terrible that between the ages of 30 and 35, 57, 35 and 40, 311. This profession will simply die out, and there are fewer practices, and in Budapest districts will eliminate pediatric and general medical practices, because they cannot find a doctor. By the way, about the secondment, it means that when someone retired in one of the Budapest districts and no one in the eight doctors in that office took up the replacement, the Chief of Staff called my attention to the fact that there is no emergency, there is no disaster, she has no right to order a replacement. [[Dr. Péter Takács: The replacement is different!]] assigning co-workers. [[Dr. Péter Takács: The replacement is different!]] I've got the documentation, but it doesn't matter. 37 adult practice in Budapest, 24 children's practice is empty. It's never been like this. If you look at it and look at it from 19 only, there were 406 empty practices, a total of 517 thousand unattended patients, and thus replaced. In these GPs, it's not the emergency room that solves this problem. I just have to ask the Secretary of State again why this was so urgent. Gyula Kincses has not sinned so much that he has to be beaten in a statical manner in one day. And I refuse to have brainwashed the Medical Chamber of any kind. I've always been at the chamber delegates' meetings, but I've never spoken. So if I have that effect with my person, then it's very interesting. But the question remains the same. Will this static law make more workers, more professionals, more doctors; will it be better for the patients, will it be shorter for the waiting list, will there be more general practitioners, will the hospital's debt decrease? [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: The threat will cease!]] [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: The threat will cease!]] What? (Dr. Zoltán Kovács: The threat will cease!) No threats! If there's no threat... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] You should read these documents and watch these videos, because it is very easy to speak here in Parliament on some information, but this information is unfortunately not valid, it is not true. This law is based on lies. Thank you.
u2023-02-28-96	I will ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] If not, the consolidated debate is closed. Mr Secretary of State has eight minutes to give the rapporteur's reply at the end of the debate. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-97	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Dear House, I would respond very briefly to factual and less factual points. In any case, I would like to thank the opposition representatives present to wait for the answer, unlike the other representatives of the left, who are throwing in some false figures and then running away. One of the fashions is waiting listing, 700 days, three years, and they're offering me the NEAK website. I went up to the NEAK website and checked that in the case of hip replacement, the average waiting time is 131 days, the median is 40 days, South Transdanubia is 122 days, with Mr Bellozó. In major extended spinal surgeries, compared to Szabó Timea's statement, who spoke for three years, reality is 70 days. Seventy days! In general, the ratio between the planned waiting time and the actual operating time is 5:1. I'm just telling you for the sake of fact. Obviously, he doesn't care about the answer, because he's not here anymore. Turning to the essential part of the closing phrase: no matter how much the opposition and the leadership of the Medical Chamber try to confuse us, as Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy said, we do not have a conflict with the medical society, but we have been in conflict with the medical board, which operates with conscious and tendentious slides, if not 360, but 180 degrees changes in direction. I have presented the proposals of the MOK, which concern the transformation of health care. I'd like to tell you another little addition. After the delegation, Mr. Minister of Interior requested the President of the Medical Chamber, who, by the way, brought one of the secretaries to come in and go through the Chamber's proposals in May 2020 and 2022. They went through the whole thing. Is that what the chamber suggested? Yeah, that's what he suggested. Did he get into the law? Yeah, it's in the law. Is it part of the package the Chamber recommended for basic care? Yeah. Is it part of the package you suggested on duty? Yeah. Here's a little comment. It was said that in 2016-17 President Kincses described almost the same thing that I have just introduced with the Hajdú-Bihar County Pilot and which I would like to extend nationwide. There's one small difference. He would have charged the patient a small fee of two thousand forints. Looks like he can't escape the magic of the visitation fee. So they went through this discussion point by point on the Chamber's proposals, and after each proposal was established that it was essentially a picture of the Chamber's proposals in May 2020, the Minister asked what the problem was then. The answer was that although all proposals are in order one by one, please, the overall picture, the big picture. [[13.20]] I don't know, he's familiar with the lyrics. We hear the same about the rule of law. It's all right one at a time, but, well, that's a big picture. I therefore ask the speakers and the medical colleagues to always try to assess the situation on the basis of facts, and to take into account the facts of the past four years and the period from May, the last nine months. Maybe, I have to say, we're doing something right when I look at the latest fluctuations I've got in my hand that, compared to last year, there are 1414 more doctors working in the state care system than last year, 1414 more people working in the state care system! And 1758 more professionals. So when, based on the facts, colleagues make a decision and vote with their feet, I have to say that it does make our work look positive, and that is also an answer to the question by Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy, so that there will be more doctors. So there will be more doctors and professionals that good, they had to take favourable government measures, which has otherwise happened. By the way, the medical emigration was the highest in the period from 2008 to the 11th. At that time, 1100 doctors asked each year for a certificate for working abroad, and 980 of the 1100 doctors did not write a prescription in Hungary the following year. In Hungarian, about a thousand doctors left the Hungarian supply system thanks to the activities of the Gyurcsány government and socialist governments. On the other hand, the situation is as follows. 300-400 requests are made each year, and three-quarters of which, in Hungarian, 300 doctors write recipes in Hungary the following year. A hundred doctors decide to work abroad, as opposed to the thousand in your administration. So the decimation, I say to Congressman Komárom, or I don't know who accused us of decimation, in the time of doctors leaving the country, may not be the Member, it may be his fellow Member, so look for decimation here. Tens of doctors go abroad like they did when you were in charge, and I think it's a very big achievement. So I'm asking colleagues to make their own decisions based on facts. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, contrary to the arguments made by the Chamber, the renewal of the basic supply contains a number of elements which, rather than making it impossible, will help the practice to function. We're trying to make basic care attractive again. The Chamber has proposed extending the indicator system, which is, of course, denied. Part of the program is to transform the Resident Scholarship Programme, by making the real deficit professions and basic care professions attractive, and even plan to introduce an orientation scholarship aimed at the fifth- to sixth-year students in order to make the GP more attractive. The Chamber is aware of these ideas, but it does not inform this membership. So I would like to ask the honourable Members and gentlemen to consider these facts and to make their decision in the vote and to ask this House to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-28-98	Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place on this day at 15 a.m. I'll take a break. (Sunning: 13.24 15.03 President: István Jakab Note: Attila Gelencsér and Dávid Dócs)
u2023-02-28-99	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Thank you for your understanding. [[It's constant noise.]] Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. Once you've taken your seats, please check that your card has been placed in the ballot counting machine. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2006 XCVII on professional chambers in healthcare. T/3065 on the amendment of Act T/3065 and certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/3065/2 of the Legislative Committee's proposal to amend it in summary. No T/3065/3 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3065/2. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 31 votes against and no abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3065. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 122 votes in favour, 31 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 15.05 15.07 President: István Jakab Note: Attila Gelencsér and Dávid Dócs)
u2023-02-28-100	Dear Parliament, I ask my colleagues with respect... [[Noise. Move.]] Fellow Members! Anyone who does not wish to participate in further work wants to leave the meeting room because of his urgent public duties, please do so now, with all due respect. And if anyone stays inside, please take a seat, we'll start our work. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend laws concerning the management of certain assets until closure. Presentation by Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; Gergely Gulyás, Fidesz; Erik Bánki, Fidesz and Péter Hoppál, Fidesz, Members T/309. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Peter Hoppál, the author of the item on the agenda, who wishes to tell you about the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-28-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The T/309. Mr Máté Kocsis, Mr Gergely Gulyás and my fellow Member Erik Bánki presented a bill amending certain laws concerning the management of assets as individual representatives of Parliament. I would like to pay tribute to the fact that, at today's meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Parliament actually adopted the agenda with almost complete unanimity, with a vote against. This shows that not only the pro-government majority, but also the opposition, intend to support this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, You can see a transfer of property under the paragraphs in this proposal, and you will also find the abolition of the prohibition on the disposal of certain assets already transferred to the church. The beneficiary is the Reformed Church of Hungary in this package of laws from the Hungarian State. You are well aware and aware that the ecclesiastical higher education that started after the regime change has given rise to serious roots in all great denominations, so is the Roman Catholic Church, the Reformed Church, the Evangelicals and the Jewish Church. Our Fundamental Law, the Fundamental Law of Hungary, states that the separation of the Church and State, its historic task and mission has been completed, and today we regard the religious function of the churches as an internal function of the churches. At the same time, there are commitments made by historical denominations that take a significant commitment from the state to society as a whole. That's the educational area. We are well aware that the world of ecclesiastical public education was able to restart after the change of regime, since for a transitional period, the positions of church education that had started in 996 on Pannonhalma had been halted after 1948, as a result of the nationalization of the communist dictatorship. Now, since the beneficiary is the Reformed Church, so with a figure, allow me to serve you. [[15.10]] As a result of the nationalization carried out in two steps between 1948-53, a total of one and one of the 1065 Reformed educational institutions in Hungary remained, the Reformed College in Debrecen, its high school and boarding school, where for 40 years, 45 years from all parts of the country, families who considered it important for their children to be brought up in accordance with the principles of the Reformed Calvinism. So, after the change of regime, the 1064 schools that were abandoned had to have legal frameworks, so that where local society, local community, would wish to do so, there would be legal possibilities for re-launching. We are well aware that the Hungarian rules of restoration did not extend to land estates owned by the state, so the land bases and land used to provide the material background and base of public education and higher education institutions were not returned to the historical churches after the change of regime. Therefore, a series of different governments are the most important of these, perhaps, interstate agreements concluded with the Vatican during the period of the Horn government, which include the provision of guarantees from the direction of the Hungarian state that, per child, at the level of quotas, which the Hungarian state spent in sum for the public education and public education of a child, complements that amount at the otherwise underfunded annual church public education level, and by the end of the year, it provides additional support to church public education institutions. This is a constitutional practice across governments, so since 1997 it has now been established. At the same time, the issue and the situation of higher education was a much more difficult area to rehabilitate and reboot, since the positions of higher education clearly increased and improved in the 40-45 years left behind for church public education, and the adaptation of Hungarian higher education to international standards was also a big step ahead before 1990, and a stable institutional network covered Hungary from the perspective of higher education in 1990. However, the question has been raised that historical churches wish to exercise their right to establish institutions in the field of higher education. And in this respect, we can see the successes and results that can be achieved in the institutional establishment of historical churches and historical denominations during the first decade after the change of regime. This circle highlights the intention and gesture of the Hungarian Reformed Church to establish a higher education institution, which is celebrating its 30th anniversary just now, because the Synod of the Hungarian Reformed Church decided in 1993 to establish the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár. This university was founded on an earlier history, since now 170 years since the 19th century. In the middle of the century, the Reformed Church established its theological academy in Budapest. In the meantime, the theological academy is the XX. By the second half of the 20th century, he provided university level education for the theological sciences and, in fact, developed it, expanded it into a multi-armed, state-accepted university institution participating in the accreditation system during the foundation and gesture of the Reformed Church 30 years ago this year. And the Károli Gáspár Reformed University is well aware and we can clearly see that we have a number of connections between those who may have chosen this university from our circle of acquaintances or relatives on the Hungarian university palette. Allow me to share only some data from the university tomorrow. One of our weekly economic papers, our magazine, prepares its annual diploma ranking every year; in the 2022 ranking we can see the following data from the Károli Gáspár Reformed University: this university was the fourth best higher education institution of the 38 institutions ranked in Hungary. It was the University of Károli who was the second country in the ranking of teaching excellence for the full year of 22th. And this university's Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in the overall faculty ranking, where 150 university faculties participate, was the fourth best in the faculty competition. The Károli Gáspár Reformed University took the first place in the regional ranking of economic science training in terms of the proportion of academic teachers. These are four indicators, each showing that the Reformed Church took the founding intention of 30 years ago very seriously, and they have now managed to create a cutting-edge institution by launching the teaching staff and the excellent professions. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to respond a little bit to the issue of the current asset allocation. As you know, as it has been founded by parliamentary decisions, in higher education, the government has started a scale change in recent years. In the context of this shift, public-interest trust foundations have been set up, which, among university maintainers, have largely crossed from the scope of state reservation to this fund's reservations. This change of model was accompanied by thousands of billions of previous PPP investments by the State before 2010, so former state universities did not have to carry this financial burden any longer each year. However, church maintainers did not use this option, there the church maintainer did not support PPP investments, so the state did not have to cover the thousands of billions of PPP substitution gestures for ecclesiastical institutions, so in fact it can be said that, on a normative basis, if we were to allocate state money to students of state and later institutions maintained by KEKVA to the head quota weighting of students of higher education institutions in the church circle, the church sector would be seriously underfunded. Here, too, there is a gesture that we can feel that it is important for the state to make up for this hiatus for the circle of higher education institutions in ecclesiastical reserve. [[15.20]] I only found two important data on PPPs at the time's purchasing value to see how much this means for the validated discounted current value: Between 2000 and 2004 Hungarian public universities made PPP investments worth some HUF 35 billion, and between 2005 and 2008, an investment worth HUF 44 billion was made in such a construction. This means that at that time, at 20 years ago, public funding of HUF 80 billion had to be included in the total, in order to increase public universities and colleges in such a large amount of infrastructure development. Thus, this construction was hardly used by the church institutions. Therefore, this surplus of 80 billion dollars worth of wealth, now worth hundreds of billions, was explicitly avoided by ecclesiastical higher education institutions. This is why it is worthy and fair that, in some government decisions, the historic churches received, in order to compensate for this, asset relief gestures, which then had historical churches, which they had received from the State specifically for the use of higher education, could be incorporated into their campus development programmes. This was the case for all historical denominations. The bill presented by my fellow Members before us now contains real estate which will help and support the campus development and the campus centre of Károli Gáspár Reformed University, which is 30 years old this year. I think that, in the context of the arguments made, it is therefore a gesture from the state to the Reformed Church in Hungary, which comes late, as the positive discrimination of the state institutions is, of course, understandable, since the state is primarily committed to institutions operating in its own maintenance, but it is very important, however, that in the spirit of the pluralism of its maintainers, students and educators of institutions that do not therefore operate in the church maintenance circle or now in a trust fund. Thus, we consider it important to include the institutional development of the Reformed Church of Hungary in relation to these properties. And to the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár we wish from here that the journey started 30 years ago and the capacities built in the meantime, the nearly 8 thousand university students whose families believe that they would like to have their children trained in this type of training, and that adult youths who say yes to studying in a church institution should not suffer harm because they are studying in a church institution should also have a campus of such quality, XXI. It meets the needs of the century, as any other partner institution in Hungary is able to present basic requirements. Therefore, I would like to ask you with respect that, as we have been given large, wide-ranging support in the Commission framework when putting this on the agenda, you will be pleased to give the same broad support in the final vote, in view of the content of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, I would like to ask Mr. Balázs Fürjes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-02-28-103	Thank you very much. I promise, especially with regard to the fact that it is a bill from its representatives and not from the government, I will briefly abuse the patience of the Parliament. But, of course, the bill has the government's support. According to the Fundamental Law, in Hungary, the state and church operate separately, but this does not mean that they should not cooperate. In many respects, the national government is on a common platform with the churches of history, established, recognized, and we share our goals, and we consider the churches of Hungary as a key strategic partner, including the Hungarian Reformed Church, to achieve strategic goals. In higher education, I do not want to make a production report to the National Assembly, but if we look at the results, and it is in place that there are also many debates in the National Assembly on the issue of Hungarian higher education, but if we look at the various international rankings, such as the University ranking of Times Higher Education, there were 11 universities in the top 5 percent last year; Semmelweis University has reached the top 5 percent of Hungary's universities since these rankings were made, its best position has been added to the 250 best universities in the world; the number of foreign students has also increased in Hungary. There is always much work to be done, but there may be results in recent years. And, of course, the church institutions have played a prominent role in Hungarian higher education, and our confidence is that this will continue to be the case. Less than one tenth of what the Communists illegally took from them after 1945 will be returned to the churches. So I think that there is no disproportionateness. The government believes, of course, that it agrees with the applicants of the proposal that, after many years of strengthening other actors in Hungarian higher education, the development of the flagship of reformed higher education should be supported with a slight lag, and that the development of campus, if possible in such a difficult economic situation, should be supported primarily by benefits in kind. We want as much success as possible in achieving the goals of Károli Gáspár University and developing campus, and the government is willing to cooperate in other ways to achieve these goals. So, of course, we support the Parliament's decision on this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, as has been said here in the expozee, it is basically a property management law, although the underlying content is much deeper and much more diverse. Allow me to say here as the lead speaker of Fidesz that, indeed, this bill could not have been made, and probably would not have been supported by the government, and I would not be able to be supportive of the Fidesz faction if we didn't know it, we couldn't, I think we all here in Hungary, how much the Reformed faith and the Reformed Church have given the Hungarian nation in the last 505 years. It is an interesting coincidence, since anyone who deals with the church, the Church affairs knows that we celebrated together five, five and a half years ago, I can say that the country is the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, and we have talked a lot about the Reformed Church in Hungary, its operation, and about where and how the Reformed people in Hungary have contributed to this nation, this country, throughout history. We, Europeans and Hungarians, could also say that we would not be who we are today, if not for the Reformed faith, if not for the Reformed Church. And from this point of view, this is not a debate, because it is practically a real estate transfer, if we decapitate it, but it is still appropriate to say that what has been said here is that the current Hungarian government, in comparison with what the Reformed Church and the Reformed Church mean to Hungary, in a rather serious hyathe, can be said, is in a very serious restentation towards the Church. [[15.30]] And let me go back there, there were some historical facts here, and although we know that there were long-standing Reformed schools in Sárospatak, Pápa, Debrecen, Nagyenyeden and Cluj-Napoca, higher education and, in particular, university reform higher education in Budapest, we know that it could not start for historical reasons. All the way to II. Until Joseph's decree of grace, 1781 it was not possible to talk about this in Hungary, when, for example, the Catholic Church played a significant role in higher education, and it took a long time to wait here in Budapest for the Reformed Church to be able to start the higher education training that was said here, in fact it was able to start as a theological academy in 1855. And in fact, the result of the same circumstances is that in 1863, he was able to start with a school in the vicinity of Ráday Street, around the Great Church, and more, well, it could be said, a century-old shortage, a hiatus resulting from the conditions and not from the ravish of the Reformed Church, otherwise in 1993 he was able to replace it with the already mentioned church council decision, and the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár was able to start. And indeed, this path does not only replace a historical deficit, but it has been bringing very serious results ever since. Here in the introduction, the university provides important and prestigious training, here it is worthy of the competition of Hungarian faculties and universities, and also of the teaching faculty, I think it has outstanding results. And, last but not least, it was said that the university operates with over 8,000 active students, and indeed, as the presentation shows, the university outgrew itself, outgrown the real estates, the institutions from which it started, showing the need for church reformed education. With this proposal, we believe that the Hungarian government only acknowledges the work, which I think the Hungarian Reformed Church started very correctly and very well 30 years ago. Overall, we therefore welcome the proposal submitted, we welcome the government's support for this, and we would like to ask all parliamentary parties, the faction of the Hungarian Reformed Church, to recognise the very, very important role that the Hungarian Reformed Church has played in Hungarian society, in Hungarian education, through this real estate application and through it, with the support of reformed higher education, and I ask you to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-28-107	Dear House, I have listened with great interest to the discussion of my fellow Members, even if a significant part of them are only indirect to the bill in question, and I must also say that we certainly agree on one thing: that we wish the Reformed University of Károli and the students good luck, just like all Hungarian higher education institutions, all students and all teachers. But that is not what this bill is about, and that is not what it is about in the first place. This, as my fellow Member has pointed out before me, is a bill on the benefit of wealth. This bill is about the government handing over new properties from state to church, and the public wealth becomes the property of a group again. This is the continuation of the policy of strengthening state dependence, the state umbilical cord, rather than the independence of the churches, which seeks to bribe the churches and church leaders with financial benefits and to bring them to the government's side. This, my fellow Members, is unacceptable and I am convinced that it also contradicts your Fundamental Law and contradicts the constitutional principle of separation of the state and church. Because, fellow Members, you are here talking about very important educational goals and talk about how important it is for the Reformed Church to receive these properties for educational purposes; but what is happening in this proposal is that they give five properties, and then, by way of derogation from the National Property Act, they allow this property not only to be used for that purpose; they allow it to be alienated otherwise; they allow this property to otherwise be removed from the church circle in any way, even if the church owner concerned makes such a decision. As is the case with the Kinizsi Street building, because there the bill is aimed at abolishing the ban on disposal, so the National Assembly cancels that otherwise the Reformed Church cannot sell this property. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say to you that this is nothing more than another part of public property being taken away and used in a way that is otherwise not for public purposes, because if they were to serve the purpose of the public, they would not otherwise alleviate these conditions, on the contrary, under strict conditions, only allow the church to use this property for the stated public purposes and, where appropriate, for education. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not agree to the debate I should be having with the Secretary of State on the situation in higher education, this is not a debate, but I must say that it is quite clear what the Government intends. You are ruining and ruining public education, whether it is higher education or public education, and otherwise you are filling church institutions with money, because you are hoping that these institutions will raise loyal subjects to you. Fortunately, this is not the case; there are also many excellent young men from church institutions who are capable of critical thinking who do not fall for you, and I know many of them, but the intention is quite clear: there is a political intention here that they want to dominate the church in the field of education, at least in the field of elite education, but at the same time let me indicate that this is not just a matter of wealth. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-02-28-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2023-02-28-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, The Christian Democratic People's Party is a more than 75-year-old world-view party whose fundamental goal is to serve the Hungarian nation and Hungarian homeland on the basis of Christian values. This has been our goal in Hungarian public life for over seven decades, even during the brown and red dictatorships. Christendom's eternal values have determined and defined our valid principles, which are a sure foundation for every era in our decisions and in our political action. These principles are still decisive today, such as freedom, solidarity, subsidiarity, the harmony of the Christian image, individual and community, the protection of the created world, all of which are important and decisive values for us, which our Christian churches have been a credible and faithful representative for centuries. [[15.40]] Dear House, For centuries, the presence and activities of the churches have made an extraordinary contribution to the survival, strengthening and development of Hungary, the Hungarian nation. It is not by accident that our Fundamental Law states that we recognize Christendom's role as a national savior. Our Christian churches, in this case the Reformed Church of Hungary, have contributed significantly to the survival of our country, our nation, and even to the frequent reunions in Hungarian history, with their educational, health, cultural, social and charitable activities. Therefore, KDNP has always supported and supported the church's work of faith, community and community building. During the change of regime, these churches have made a significant contribution to the last great reunion. Already in the late eighties, some of the most educational institutions were returned to the churches by the then governments, and then in the early nineties the church compensation process began, which lasted for more than twenty years, for exactly 25 years. Yet, two things are important to remember. On the one hand, the fact that during the period of communism, the Hungarian state has completely deprived the churches of all its assets, its thousands of institutions, and of the lands, forests, houses and church insurance companies that maintain them, with a feather stroke. On the other hand, it should also be borne in mind that the Church's compensation, which began in 1992-93, was only partial and solely intended compensation. In Hungarian, churches could only claim their former properties for religious or community purposes, in a significantly populated and deprived state. Dear House, Sorry about the longer introduction, but we started from here at the time, and after 2010, the government made a radical paradigm shift in church politics. The essence of this can be summarised as follows: the state and the churches are not opposed to each other, the state and the churches do not exist merely side by side, but, of course, while they are clearly separated in constitutional law, the state and the churches can cooperate and cooperate with each other. That is, we have placed the emphasis on this quality cooperation, which is what is needed, the sole purpose of which is man, the Hungarian man, the Hungarian people's community, Hungarian society and the Hungarian nation. So the last 13 years have been about this cooperation. Of course, this does not mean that there must always be agreement between a state and a church, but it does mean that, unlike the previous periods, there is always a continuous dialogue aimed at helping people, children, students, older people, patients, needy people in education, training, culture, health care, social and charitable areas. It was part of this cooperation, as I have already mentioned, of partial and targeted compensation, of the various forms of support, of the changes in institutional financing, but this cooperation has taken a new direction with institution take-over, renovations, development and investment. I believe that there has been more or less consensus between political parties in these processes, with varying intensity over the last decades. More and more needs for the church institutions have emerged over the past period, as infrastructure institutional capacities have been limited in many cases, I can say. It is very clear and the government has set out in this direction that we need to further develop these capacities in the field of higher education and create new opportunities. Dear House, The properties listed in the bill before us are necessary for the most efficient and modern work of the Reformed Church in Hungary, especially in the field of higher education. Allow me once again to refer back to the fact that, during the communist dictatorship, the wealth of the churches was taken with a pen stroke, and not only real estate, schools, social institutions, health institutions, but also outskirts and property, if that is the way to put it, which served the purpose of maintaining this large institutional system of education institutions, higher education institutions, social institutions and no more, other institutions in economic, financial terms, and specifically, the Reformed Church in Hungary. This fortune was pulled out of the churches and church institutions by a pen stroke in one piece. I would therefore like to indicate that KDNP welcomes and, of course, supports this bill. Thank you very much to our fellow Members who have tabled this bill. I'm just asking it as a rhetorical question, and now I'm referring a little more back to the partial compensation of what happened to the wealth, the assets that weren't returned, couldn't have happened to the Church's property. Dear Parliament, The Calvinist University of Károli Gáspár, the number one institution of reformed higher education, as has been said, celebrates the 30th anniversary of its founding this year. And if we add the operation of your predecessor, the Pesti Theological Academy, then here we can look back to a history of 170 years. Not only its past but also its present, it can be said that Károli Gáspár Reformed University is also one of the outstanding research and teaching communities of our country's higher education. The Reformed University of Károli Gáspár has not yet had a campus suitable for modern challenges. As a result, the faculty of the university operates scatteredly, which does not, by definition, help to create or strengthen the identity of the students. In view of this fact and the Jubilee of the founding of the Károli Gáspár Reformed University, KDNP therefore agrees with the proposal put forward, and I think we can conclude that the time has come to support the development and development of the Reformed University after strengthening other actors in Hungarian higher education. In this difficult economic situation, in this war situation, I also think it is very important that we help and support the work of the university, and that we can now do so by such means, which are included in this bill. As I mentioned, when the Reformed Church of Hungary decided 30 years ago to establish the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár 30 years ago, despite the ongoing infrastructure difficulties, it played a significant role in the education of young people and in the training of advanced professionals for communities and institutions of Hungarians from here and beyond. With the establishment of the university, the church has made great efforts for scientific and community cooperation at the Hungarian level, but at European level, as well as for the participation of professionals trained at the university in intellectual and scientific public life. In the 30th year of the establishment of the university, the Hungarian State, the Hungarian Parliament, recognizes this decision, recognizes the Church's efforts for higher education, its development, and facilitates and facilitates the work of the community builder as efficiently and as modern as possible, especially the development of the church's higher education activities in infrastructure, the improvement of the quality of the conditions serving higher education and the achievement of the essential investment and development goals. [[15.50]] Dear House, On this basis, in order to improve the higher education activities of the Reformed Church in Hungary and to facilitate the implementation of the necessary investment and development goals, the properties indicated in the bill will be owned free of charge by the Church, which is well supported by the KDNP parliamentary group. We propose that every faction, every fellow Member of Parliament, should support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-111	Mr President, Dear House, In some symbolic topics, it is worth clarifying the basic position before going into the details. I would like to point out that my political community has declared that we have a historical responsibility to compensate the Church for the amazing damage previously achieved during the communist dictatorship. So what we are talking about here is not exactly based on the proposal, at best linked to it, is acceptable to us in terms of the basic position, and we see that if in an imaginary proposal we are talking about compensating the church for historical crimes, so we are giving back what history has unfairly taken away from them, then we can't, can't, and never have. We also see that educational, social and health activities that historical churches can take over and can perform state functions or fine tune them even more efficiently, represent value, treasure, and should be protected accordingly. This proposal is now essentially about the transfer of property in front of us, and when public property becomes something private, there is always an alarm in some of the opposition representatives, always looking for some kind of tampering behind it. I believe that if, in this case, there is indeed a campus development, and there are no other mines behind it, then this is an acceptable proposal. Obviously, it was here during the debate that the possible disposal of real estate or part of them would be possible in the future. It is worth making clear that there is any such plan at all, such an idea appeared. I didn't see him, but since that was the case during the debate, it would be worth getting to the bottom of it. We also see that there is actually a higher education development aid in terms of campus development and the transfer of real estate. We understand the difficult economic situation, but if it is a campus, I will not stop to talk about the issue of housing, because I see that in a country suffering from housing poverty, where it is typically in the capital city, there is an unrealisticly high rent, rent, and we cannot say that everyone is going to a dormitory where they would like, the question arises that the government is willing to support the resolution of housing issues on a budget basis. This may, by the way, be a specifically housing compensation or contribution for students. This may be a help for various leases even against contracts presented. We know that there is a kind of social minimum or basic level that universities are trying to manage on their own, but we feel that this is not enough. The housing chaos is so bad that we have to intervene here, and I think that it is not enough to help the university world in this way either, but we have a serious responsibility and a serious task to implement a housing programme from a budget line. Therefore, in the debate on amending the budget, I intend to bring this issue back to the table, and it is clear that the world of university students must also be supported by young Hungarians so that they do not have housing problems. Obviously, a campus development is only a contact area of this, but it is not possible to conceal the possibility of supporting universities and institutions, of supporting the Reformed Church, but when it comes to a church institution, a university, students go to university, and one of their biggest problems is that their housing is immeasurably expensive. By the way, in terms of social mobility mentioned by my colleague Balázs Ander, my friend, it does not matter that a talented young person who comes to a university from a sack village, can solve his housing or face, say, market rents. From 2022 to 23 January, an average rental in Pest increased from 150 to 200,000 forints. Obviously, trying to manage this with three or four students, or trying to manage their families, could be an unrealistic burden. So I'm going to get both the proposer and the government to think about this connecting area, so that it doesn't try to help on one side, but on the other side, the problem has grown so much for market and other reasons, more precisely because of market failures over the past few years, that it can make the people involved impossible. By the way, if we clarify these still obscure spots, we will probably be able to support the proposal, despite any operational dysfunction or suspicion of the transfer of similar assets, but we would like to be clear on these issues. Obviously, for our political community, the Christian social idea is not a foreigner but our own, we are clearly open in this regard. But, speaking of this idea, I will not stop to mention that I would expect KDNP to make, say, new clarification proposals regarding family bankruptcy protection that show genuine Christian social sensitivity, say, help former families with foreign currency credit damage, for whom family bankruptcy protection could still be a viable way, could have been. We know that a few hundred people here have been able to help or provide temporary help over many years, while in Poland this model, if not working perfectly but very well, provides help to thousands of thousands of people living and in trouble. I take the liberty of bringing this up because, during yesterday's and the hour of immediate questioning, it has been suggested that, where appropriate, the situation of the credit-damaged is worthy of rethinking. I welcome this very much, because I have made hundreds of speeches on this subject here in Parliament. My excellent colleagues would probably be able to continue the sentence if I stopped halfway through a foreign exchange loan case. So I'm going to ask you to reconsider, in addition to the housing segment, the fine-tuning of family bankruptcy protection. If this is done in a package, it is possible to make it possible to make life easier for the affected and mentioned university citizens, let us say, going to university. This is very, very important in the middle of a crisis. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Apáti applauds.]]
u2023-02-28-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-28-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will be extremely brief, I do not wish to engage in lengthy discussions on the history of law and politics, nor do I undertake historical analyses, nor would I like to put this proposal into any other broader context. We are not trying to look into or project more than what is written here on paper, with the alarm obviously turning on in certain situations in a right-wing opposition representative, and we are also promoting confidence, and the Hungarian Movement will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2023-02-28-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There are two-minute speeches now, but I don't see a candidate yet. Further speeches by Members are also possible. No one came forward in writing, but now Mr Miklós Hajnal, the Momentum Group, has come forward. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, I would also like to join the previous speakers in congratulating the success of the Calvinist University of Károli Gáspár and wishing the university further success. Today, however, we are primarily discussing the transfer of state assets, that is what is in the proposal, this paper is before us, and I wish to speak on the grounds of territorial concern, because most of the proposal is part II. 1 and XII district real estate, by the way, there's still an IX. district real estate, too. [[16.00]] Let's start with the general comment. As has already been said, paragraph 13 of the National Property Act provides for what you have created, that when the State transfers an area, the property is transferred to someone, a 15-year disposal ban will be put in place. On the other hand, this bill has been pulled out with a feather stroke. This basically means that these areas could be sold the next day and any other investment could have started, like a new real estate development. Following the free transfer of ownership, the Reformed Church, Károli Gáspár Reformed University, has no obligation to report on exploitation in this case. This is also a condition that you have written in the laws before, and that you now grant immunity from. We believe that these guarantees are necessary. We believe that these guarantees are necessary, too, according to you. This is your law, which should also be applied in this case. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) But let us get to the specific examples. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. In the district there is also a school and kindergarten, the Hungarian-English Bilingual School of Magda Szabó, and the Kindergarten and Cradle of Rosebud, under the number 47 of Áron Gábor Street and 111-115 Bimbó út. I ask what is the guarantee that these institutions can survive and operate smoothly in the future. And if there's no guarantee of that, where do you want to send children? There is already a very serious shortage of nursery- kindergarten seats. The government is a great pusher for more children, but where will they go if these properties are handed over? And that's when we go to XII. Circuits, too! Annex XII is replaced by the following: In 2014 in the district, the Ministry of Defence and the mountain municipality tried to jointly sell the real estate ensemble that we are talking about here, the area between Virányos út and the Szilágyi Erzsébet tree line. A few years ago, they wanted to make money on these properties, and now they're being transferred free of charge, but, as I said earlier, the church can make money on them, because you're the ones who relieve them of the sale. They wanted to make money a few years ago, but the tender failed. At the same time, a major investment was launched in neighbouring properties. Anyone, when they walk along Virányos Road, can admire the fact that they're building huge dice houses, a 50-bedroom housing complex is being built on Virányos Road. It's not the only attraction, unfortunately, where we're going in the Mountains, we'll meet them. Thus, when this is the specific case, we also encounter a real estate investment directly in the neighbourhood, when we see that Article XII of the Treaty provides that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. In the district, many of these real estate investments have been launched in recent years, and you are now writing in this proposal that in this case the church as a new owner is practically exempt from the ban on disposal, then I think that we are right to use suspicion, we are right to be cautious. However, if they really want to use these areas for educational purposes, it could be a positive one, but the minimum would be that at least the disposal content would be put back in the bill. It would be necessary to avoid the suspicion that another real estate dog is being prepared. Unfortunately, we've seen too many of these before in XII. in the district. So I would urge you not to be suspicious, and I would urge you to amend this bill in this regard in a timely manner, and, accordingly, this proposal could be supported in principle if the appropriate guarantees were to be provided for it. Thank you very much.
u2023-02-28-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and ask if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. Now I'll ask the author, Peter Hoppál, if you'd like to take the opportunity to close. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I'll wait for him to strap on the microphone. Thank you very much. You have the floor, please.
u2023-02-28-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had a little advance on the request, the confidence and the possibility, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition representatives on the Commission's agenda supported the proposal with one exception. Here in the debate the opinions are a bit articulated. I would like to ask you with all due respect that the restraint that we have experienced on many occasions on the part of the opposition's representatives during similar submissions should also be taken forward and taken out in this presentation. I think that the assumption that Congressman Gergely Arató said on behalf of the Democratic Coalition is that the current period of government is ruining public institutions [[Gergely Harvesto: It's a fact! That's not hypothetical.]] This is disproved in the language of the numbers, honourable Member. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You were responsible for the destruction of the institutions before 2010 [[Gergely Harvesto: Come on!]] when the number of public-funded students fell drastically in the period 2002-10. [[Gergely Harvesto: He was taller than today...]] The insinuation was also valid in so far as, unfortunately, you did not provide any help in raising the teacher's wage after the 50 percent wage increase in 2002. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true either! Every year, there was a raise...]] This task has been entrusted to the civilian government, and this task, I believe, is on a historic scale... [[Gergely Harvesto: Did you manage?]]
u2023-02-28-118	Congressman Harvester, you keep saying that. Don't tell me, because I'm going to have to stop this attitude in some way. Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman, carry on.
u2023-02-28-119	Thank you so much for your fatherly rigor. So I am trying to answer Mr Arató that the content he has said is not in a thank-you way with the truth, because the government has doubled the funding of higher education institutions in the period of the higher education transformation in 2020. Twice, Your Honour. And if you go around now and look at the pay situation in higher education, you can experience a real wage increase for the KEKVA institutions, as well as for the state, and even the Churches have been able to enforce it. What we've heard from Congressman Miklós Hajnal is that we're right to be cowards, as I understand it, he said, from the record, you can look back at the fact that it was a slip of the tongue, or I just didn't hear it right here in the acoustics. [[At dawn, Miklós shakes his head.]] . Well, they're probably right to be cowards if they're supposed to be real estate punks in the middle of this proposal. Honourable Congressman, If he had been in the entire debate, he could have heard arguments that, in fact, there was a very important deficit in the pre-2010 period with regard to ecclesiastical institutions, because a significant part of the funding not only appears in the form of normative funding for higher education institutions, but also in a number of other forms, such as that from several speakers and also referred to it by the representative of the government. Of course, ecclesiastical institutions cannot be left at a disadvantage, so these benefits, these gestures, are trying to compensate for the disadvantages suffered before 2010 that the ecclesiastical higher education institutions had to swallow at that time. I think that this disadvantage compensation may be an important tool, that certain properties, which are now in the hands of the state, may, as a counter gesture to the former nationalizations between 1948-53, may only appear in church-owned as a small repayment of many of the property taken away, and these properties, which you also highlighted from the proposal, will certainly be used by the church for the campus expansion and campus development of the Károli Gáspár Reformed University. How he is managing this property, what kind of exchange fund he may have in his thinking, the Church will obviously know that, and the guarantees you ask as a representative of your region, surely the representatives of the Church will provide you with that. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you once again for the positive manifestations in the debate, and I very much hope that the ambiguous manifestations and the clearly aggressive anti-church sentences will be twisted down a little later in the debate, and that the opposition's greater support will also be backed up by this bill. I ask you to do this and to support that the public activities of churches and their educational and educational activities should not be detrimental to universities with church or trust fund reservations. Thank you if you support the proposal. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-28-120	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a decision declaring the year 2023 a Madách Imre Memorial Year until closure. The presentation submitted by our fellow Members, Mihály Balla and Zsolt Becsó Fidesz, H/3004. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. [[16.10]] The opening speeches will now take place within a total of 30 minutes. As you may have noticed from the plural, it follows that two of you will present this orally, Congressmen Mihály Balla and Zsolt Becsó. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Becsó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, 1823 was a special year in Hungarian literature history. Two hundred years ago, in the days of January, events took place that affected our day. If we symbolically say that at the birth of Jesus there was a flaming star in the sky, which helped the coming of the three kings, then we can also imagine that 25 years before the outbreak of the revolution of 48, a comet passed over our Hungarian country. In Kiskőrös, the Petrovich family was born the weak flower named Alexander on 1 January, and became one of the most famous and outstanding figures of Hungarian poetry. A poem from the Hungarian people's thunderstorming centuries was born from the pen of Ferenc Kölcsey. The poet wrote his most influential poem at the dawn of the national awakening in the loneliness of his satmarches. And on January 20, 1823, a fragile newborn was born in the Castle of Nógrád County in Alsóstregova, the castle of Nobility, or Imre Madách of Stregova and Kiskelecsényi. Dear House, Hungary is rightly proud of all its natives, but especially those who, for some reason, excelled by their lives, works and achievements. Hungary has given not only its own people but also the world a number of values, which must not be forgotten, but must be preserved and nurtured, because this is our common task and duty. We need the strength, faith, courage, and hopeful hope we draw from the examples of our present and past, and from which the future generation will draw. Speaking of Zoltán Horusitzky's thoughts on presenting the Hungarian Anthem and its age:. History is shaped by passions, the air of the ages is made hot by great feelings. And the more a great passion or the radiation of an idea pervades the wider layers of the people, the brighter the breath of life becomes. And the harder the handcuffs chain history-making emotions, the more tense and threatening the forces will be. It's all gonna go away. Time doesn't stop, everything remains a memory. There are new lives on the tombs of the old, which will be filled with new days and storms. However, there is something that carries time into itself, which transforms the past into a living, throbbing present, not only recalling the memories of the past, but bringing it to life because it has all its vibrations and lightnings and this art. The artist experiences all the feelings of his age and, as the essence of age, leaves it to posterity in life crystals and artworks. Art means history, gives its pure extract, and makes the eternal past an eternal present. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, All of this expresses what art means in the life of a nation. The pandemic of recent years and the war in our neighbourhood also draw our attention to the importance of humility to our culture, of partnership. We are convinced that, as in our history, we will often be able to overcome this problem. Since the outbreak, our daily lives have changed, but this does not mean that the colors, tastes, and lights of culture need to fade. In our view, on the contrary, at this difficult time, we particularly need spiritual rejuvenation, the experience of art. Dear House, The castle in Lower Stregovo, where Madách was born, was the scene of creation and self-cultivation. The son of Nógrád County is connected to the motherland with family roots looking back for centuries, where he not only wrote in his main work, the Lion's Cave in his study, the permanent creation of Man's tragedy or other literary work, but also played an important role in the public life of reform. Imre Madách's parents did not intend poetic immortality, but to participate actively in county and possibly national political life, to continue family traditions, to further increase the family's weight and rank. In addition to the Hungarian and Slovak languages mastered in the parents' house and the environment, he learned German and French perfectly as a child, while continuing his studies in Latin and a bit of Ancient Greek, as well as in English. He was a shy, lonely and fragile person who spent the rest of his life getting sick. He took his studies on a private trip, took his exams at the Váci Piarista High School. In the autumn of 1837 he went to the University of Pest, where in the first two semesters he listened to philosophy, and then from the third he listened to law. This is where he met the greats of the age, his circle of friends belonged primarily to young liberal aristocrats and generous mid-owners, such as Menyhért Lónyay, the later Prime Minister, whose sister he also fell in love with, or Count Gyula Andrássy, the first Prime Minister of the post-convention era, and then Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Monarchy. Imre Madách started his public life in Nógrád County in 1841, when he was 18 years old, as a lawyer. In 1848, because of his illness, he was unable to participate armedly in the nation's struggle, but he applied for duty and served as a civilian official. Nevertheless, the Madách family suffered enormous losses during a period not exactly favourable to the nobles. Her sister, Mary Madach, her second husband and her first son, was killed by Romanian peasants, her brother got pneumonia and died in Kossuth's courier service, and Haynau hanged the father of her brother's fiancée. In 1852, Kossuth's condemned secretary, János Rákóczy, was hidden in the Nógrád County of Csestve, under the pseudonym of Paróca, using him as a forest passerby. That turned out to be and the already suspicious poet was brought to justice. He was sentenced to a year in prison, which he served, initially in Bratislava, then in Pest. In the meantime, he hasn't stopped his literary activities. The poet lived and created in one of the brightest periods of the Hungarian lira. His contemporaries and partly colleagues include Vörösmarty, Petőfi and Arany, who showed his work in 1861, and who visited him three times personally in Csestve and Alsóstregova. His wife, Erzsébet Fráter, met her at a ball in Loson, then married in Checs, and what fate was, a county ball in Loson sealed their fate. His marriage was ruined because of his wife's infidelity, and it took forever for the writer, who spent the rest of his life most with his mother and with Mama. For Madách, however, the great experiences of the age were not formulated in lyrical forms, although the number of poetry and lyrical works is not small. Madách himself did not seem to attach greater aesthetic significance to his poems, as only ten poems were published in the poet's life, not counting the few firstfruits, which in 1840 saw the light in the poet's own edition booklet in a small number of copies. This is why at the end of his life he prepared to publish Madách's poems, but he did not put his works in a timeline, but in a thematic unit, as if to show the primacy of the emotional, moodic and genre aspects instead of development in the lyrical part of his life's work. The tragedy of man, written in the last years of the poet's life, which made him immortal in literature, also reflects the ars poetica of Imre Madách's life: he believed in the importance of struggle, he saw the death of the human soul in destiny, in the submission to the unchangeable, which he expressed in the final sentence of the work. In the words of Imre Madách, I said man, fight and trust! * Eternal, beautiful, unshakable truth that weaves our everyday lives as rock, guide, bastion of faith and hope. And it is our duty to cultivate and maintain this wonderful legacy with the utmost respect and humility. The outstanding figure of literature and drama poetry, Imre Madách, is our duty and we welcome the worthy celebration of the Madách Bicentennial due in 2023. We appeal to the Honourable Parliament with the motion to raise the bicentennial year to the national level, the commemoration of it. [[16.20]] The Madách heritage not only extends beyond the county of Nógrád, but also crosses the current borders of the country, its weight and value are national and even European and universal. We hope to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth of Imre Madách with pride and heights. In view of all this, we ask that you support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-122	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this presentation with a deep pathos, including a serious literary analysis. I now give the floor to Congressman Mihály Balla. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let your goal be: glory to God, / work to yourself. The individual is free to / enforce all that is in it. / Only one command tied down: love. 6th, Roman color, thoughts of the apostle Peter. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Imre Madách was born on January 20, 1823 in Alsósztregovova, just three weeks later than Sándor Petőfi, the poet. His main work Man's tragedy and political activity are a recurring element of the political and cultural policy trends of the various social systems. As a native of Nógrád County, from an old family, he was deeply attached to his homeland, his Hungarianness. In addition to his literary work, he dug himself into the world of languages, linguistics, literature, natural sciences, philosophy, history and ideas as a polyhistorian. He knew the historical ages and the philosophical trends of his day, and he thus created a lasting one. He learned six languages, and in his university years he swam, studied piano, and lived an active social life. In addition, he played an important role in the public life of reform. Because of his sick physicality, he was not able to take part in the nation's struggle armed during 1848-49, but he helped organize the National Guard. The revolution and the struggle for freedom are reflected in Moses'drama. After the defeat of the freedom fight, he hid several freedom fighters in his home, which is why, as my fellow Member said, a year of detention was taken. Among his contemporaries and colleagues, Mihály Vörösmarty, Sándor Petőfi, János Arany, János Vajda and Mihály Tompa are all names who are great figures of Hungarian literature and Hungarian cultural history. He wrote poems, dramas, satires in which he sought accomplishment. Although he has traveled through his readings, he has traveled around the world, yet he has enjoyed himself in his family estate, in Lower Stregovo and in his mansion. His famous works, including Man's Tragedy, were created in the former Lion Cave. In Tragedy, Madách raises Hungarian, national, fate issues while still being able to speak to everyone, live anywhere and at any time in the world. We can ask what the tragedy of man today shows us, which is the era of today's 21st century. To the world of the century. We get more questions and interpretations as we read: the sixth Roman color, where moral debauchery prevails, or the eleventh, London colour, where the development of science and industry transcends all values, or the twelveth, phalanster colour, where the superhumanity of,, everyone's equals, utopian myth and materialistic science puts talent on the line, or in the fourteenth colour, the Eskimo world, where nature triumphs over man? And where are we, the man of today, in the search for Adam? Can we find the right direction and balance in this world that is in many ways impaired, where war is raging and crises are plagued by our communities? Everyone can think about it. As the Madách researcher Andor Csaba, who died less than two months ago, wrote, "But just because there are so many interpretations, and obviously much more than the text allows, it may be worth a closer look at the work itself. In principle, it would have been possible to have the right answer to all the relevant questions, and it would be enough to reach the right place, because it is impossible to say a new one. But in man's tragedy, I think we're still a long way from it. Maybe that's why Madách's universal thoughts are still valid today. Dear House, Man's tragedy made him immortal in Hungarian and universal literature, and the work also reflects the ars poetic of his life: a, I said, man: fight and trust! His eternal, unshakable truth gives us the strength of faith and hope for our daily lives. He left us with a legacy, and we must cherish and guard this legacy with humility. That is why this main event is important in the spirit of respect in Madách's narrower world, in Nógrád County, and we have therefore initiated a worthy celebration of the Madách Bicentennial due in 2023. For us in the county of Nógrád, the cultural heritage of Madách is an identity issue in addition to the Mikszáth heritage. Csúsztve, Balassagyarmat, Csécse or the settlements of Alsósztregova in the Highlands, the local cultural community life of the county of Nógrád is unimaginable without the Madách cult. For us, therefore, it is important that this year and its commemoration be brought to the national level. Beyond the Nógrád county of the Madách heritage, the country's current borders are also crossed, its weight and value are all national, and since the tragedy has been translated into forty languages, I believe that it is also a European and universal value. We hope to celebrate the 200th anniversary of Madách's birth with pride and dignity. I would ask my fellow Members to support our proposal for a resolution so that this House can adopt it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask Secretary Magdolna Zavogyán to speak. [[On the sign of Magdalene Zavován:]] Yes, thank you very much. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-125	Mr President, Dear House, The proposal submitted by Mrs Mihály Balla and Mr Zsolt Becsó, that the year 2023 should be declared by the Parliament as a commemorative year of Imre Madách, is justified and should be supported. Madách examined world history with the deep thinking of the true philosopher, and he also did no less psychological knowledge in the presentation of human nature. Madách is not only a deep thinker but also a real poet. He created immortal images, poetic power, affecting the souls of millions of people, of thoughts from feelings. In his great work he achieved the highest development of Hungarian poetry. Man's tragedy is a classic piece of moral education, vindicated by divine providence. Madách is a classic of formal puritanism. His ancestors were Protestants, as if they were Protestants. His poem reminds me of the Puritan temple with noble forms, but without any ornaments. Strict, there's no unnecessary word, no scene more than necessary and for your sake. At Madách, life and lira appear on the ideals, thus the form of the idea, the puritan's nudity of the idea becomes rich poetry, and this is where the classicity and permanence of this work lies. The statue is not painted, the material of the rock and the color of the rock, no rain washes it off. The power of thought preserves its ranks. There is no poem that captures the modern idea with such simplicity and precision. The tragedy of man is Faust's dramatic composition, but he is completely on his feet, full of great thoughts. He's the first talent since Petőfi, and he's showing his own direction. [[16.30]] Dear Members of Parliament, The government supports the commemoration of the 200th anniversary of the birth of our great classic. The Ministry of Culture and Innovation will do everything in its power to make the Memorial Year worthy of the memory and greatness of Imre Madách. I ask you to support this initiative, regardless of party standing, and to believe in our common national cause. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-02-28-126	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Tamás Herczeg. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-127	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, In his youth, Imre Madách was born as the father of the old noble family, but as we know from our historical studies, the idea of home and progress was already in the best hands, in the best minds. Madách has completed his studies with excellent results and has been keenly monitoring the processes of the reform, the growing historical current, and the increasing impact of social transformation. As a result of this, he went to the service of the county of Nógrád after carrying out his legal studies. Imre Madách studied philosophy and law, and when we talk about him, we usually say it, and this is how it happened now that he spoke six foreign languages, including Ancient Greek and Latin. He was a tablewriter, novelist, poet, lawyer, playwright, involved in the establishment of the National Guard, imprisoned for a year after the 48-49 Freedom Fight, then as a member of the Kisfaludy Society and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and many do not know about it, but he was also a Member of Parliament. As to his work, the tragedy of man puts it on the map of Hungarian literature is indisputable. It took him a long time to get his initial wings. Let's just think that he was born at the same time as Petőfi, but the writer of the National Song had been dead for 12 years, and he finished his main work, Tragedy, and he was a huge success. So it achieves the desired success and even the still - present appreciation, which is also translated into more than 40 languages. The cruel turn of fate is that from here, after the birth of the Tragedy, he was given only three years in this earthly world. A few decades later, Mihály Babits commends the work of the poet who died young in his 42nd year as follows:. His mastery is fresh in a different way than other moments of literature. With him the content is eternal; and the idea is not only the subject and matter, but also the embroidery and enchantment itself. Imre Madách is considered to be a philosophical poet by the history of literature, rightly so, and it does not contradict that the tragedy of man is not a philosophical work, not a rich thought content cast into any form, but a closed form, an amazing artistic work in rhythm and composition, as Antal Szerb, the excellent literary scientist put it. So the place of the playwright is among the immortals, it is a great idea that his oeuvre can be learned not only at the level of compulsory literature, but also within the framework of a commemorative year in a worthy and versatile way, in addition to the literature-loving audience, the wider Hungarian public can get to know him. Its work is an important element of our national cohesion, so it is good that the Committee on National Inclusion has discussed the proposal and I am pleased to say that it has given its unanimous support to the proposal, as I hope it will receive unanimous support at the plenary session. Dear Parliament, Imre Madách's work is a milestone in Hungarian literature history, an important creator of our culture, which is one of the most important pledges of our nation's survival. Culture has a value-keeping and identity-creating power. Being Hungarian is a conscious commitment to fate and culture. It is a foundation that without the values of the past there is no Hungarian future. Imre Madách created a branch of our spiritual roots, a strong pillar of our national identity. This commemorative year provides a serious opportunity to bring the poet's entire oeuvre closer to the nation, beyond the mandatory reading. It preserved a mindset that was described in the 19th century. He was the founder and builder of Hungarian life in the first century. A man of today can draw from this view of value. So the tragedy of man is, you might say, in line with the Anthem and the Word. Dear Parliament, At a time when globalist values are spreading, when Europe is living in the self-created urge to rephrase its identity, world vision, it is vital that we defend it firmly and treat the cultural heritage left to us as a strong foundation for our memory policy. I think it is also important to say that I thank our fellow Members from Nógrád for their commitment to draw the attention of the Hungarian nation to Imre Madách in 2023 in addition to Sándor Petőfi. I hope that, when the resolution proposal is adopted, a worthy commemorative year will begin at the national level, deepening and making our knowledge of one of the largest figures of Hungarian literature. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-02-28-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Balázs Barkóczi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The year 2023 will be strong enough for cultural memory. Here it has been said several times that Sándor Petőfi, Imre Madách was born 200 years ago, and it was 200 years ago that Ferenc Kölcsey cleared the manuscript of our national prayer, the Hymn. The proposal before us now takes on no less responsibility than, I quote, to raise the bicentennial year to the national level, remembering it. The Madách heritage not only extends beyond the county of Nógrád, but also crosses the current borders of the country, its weight and value are national and even European and universal. We hope to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth of Imre Madách with pride and heights. End of subpoena. Dear House, There is no Hungarian countryman who does not agree with these goals and commitments, the maintenance of the intellectual heritage of Imre Madách and the idea of the Madách Memorial Year. However, I would suggest that we take a step back now and look at the situation of Hungarian culture today in a slightly broader context, because you, fellow Members of the Government, would celebrate this commemorative year while bleeding out the culture. They occupied the institutions, closed the faucets in front of the remaining independents, because at least then there is no problem with actors, museum and public art professionals, musicians, orchestras, dancers, writers and other creators, but making culture impossible is more than a mistake, it is a sin. Of course, there is nothing to be surprised about, since everything that took place in the Hungarian cultural life after 2010 is actually the fulfillment of the Prime Minister's 2009 speech in Vötcsei. At the time, the Prime Minister talked about the fact that the non-right-wing liberal creators, i.e. left-wing liberals, failed as elites by the end of the 2000 decade, and he also said that it was not just a kind of government action on the left, but also the social-liberal cultural community that was at the same time devalued by Viktor Orbán. Let me quote the Prime Minister's words at the time:. The real problem in Hungary today is that there is no system of assessment accepted by any kind of community that could choose the elite from the entire Hungarian nation,, so politics could choose it, they understood it well, from which we expect it to give us patterns and examples. This is where we need to understand and accept that politics and culture are inevitably linked. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, We are going through a debate where you, my fellow members of the Government, have shown that the church and the state are inevitably connected, lying about everything we know about European culture since the Enlightenment. In 2009, the Prime Minister said that he did want a culture created and managed by politics. It follows, let me quote again, that the task of cultural policy is to give people and groups who create values, appreciate, acknowledge and inspire them to create them, and to bring them to people, if you will, by finding the right forms and channels, if you will, as part of mass culture. Not from 1937 and from the Soviet Union, but from 2009 Hungary. So the role of politics in culture then, according to the Prime Minister, is to tell us the values that matter and then to tell us who the artists who create values are. Of course, this required a new cultural elite. The structure of this has been started since 2010. [[16.40]] Let me remind you of the main milestones of this. In 2013, Attila Vidnyánszky was appointed director of the National Theatre, but several metropolitan and rural theatres were chosen to lead Fidesz people, such as Péter Balázs, head of the Szolnok Szigligeti Theatre, Attila József Theatre Károly Nemcsák, but the theatre reservation took place in Kaposvár, then in the Budapest... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2023-02-28-130	I'm sorry, that's not on the subject. [[Balázs Barkóczi: Yes, it belongs to the topic!]] You have expanded the subject, and I believe that you are politicising an event that is important both from a national point of view and from a Hungarian point of view, and that is important for literature in its entirety. [[Balázs Barkóczi: Culture is a national issue!]] These events are not part of the Madách Memorial Year concept. [[Balázs Barkóczi: Culture is a national issue, Mr President. That's how I started my comment. It belongs closely to Madách Memorial Year!]] Congressman, as Chairman of the Council, I consider this to be the case, and if you insist on doing so, I am obliged to withdraw the floor from you.
u2023-02-28-131	All right, Mr. President, I got it.
u2023-02-28-132	Thank you.
u2023-02-28-133	So we can all remember what kind of government smear campaign was launched in connection with the University of Theatre and Film Arts. The director of the Opera House was appointed New Year's Eve of Ókovács in 13. Now his term of office as Director General will expire, but since the new application has been declared invalid by János Csák Minister for Culture and Innovation, we do not know what will happen there. In the field of literature policy, it was a very important milestone, speaking of literature, the Nonprofit Ltd. in the Carpathian Basin Talent Care Ltd. formation. This started with a total cost of 150 million, which went far beyond all the existing... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off again.]]
u2023-02-28-134	If you continue to do this, I have no patience to listen to this from now on. [[Balázs Barkóczi: I am talking about literature, Mr President.]] Because it doesn't belong, I judge it in no way to what Madách Memorial Year suggests to anyone in Hungary.
u2023-02-28-135	Let me talk about Imre Madách and his narrower Patria. The congressmen have been here lately, I don't know how you've been in your own constituency, I suppose. Then they saw how they lived, worked, and struggled with the people, whether the teachers of the village schools, or the workers of the public education institutions, for whom you have not increased your salary for a long, long time. By the way, Imre Madách has declared himself a republicist and liberal throughout his life. That has already been said here. He was a believer in just distribution of wealth. I'm going to say this back to how much the Prime Minister's salary has increased, and how many cultural houses have closed in the countryside, because he can't manage the seven-fold increase in overhead. He despised the conveniences. His writings and dramas were influenced by humanity, solidarity with the fallen, from all extremes to political extremes. He believed in equality between peoples, spiritual and historical interrelationship between the brothers and sisters. He was a true progressive thinker of his time, who wrote about the system of castle counties which you now wish to revive:...what I can write to Pál Sontagh about the miserable state of the life of a long-old pigfals in the sand pastures, which appear to be only a few more than sheep and cattle. By the way, he wasn't comfortable with the county system. In front of us, this critical Madách stands as an ideal, who wanted the reform of the corrupt, corrupt, Serbian-led administration in the county and now again in the county and now in the county, and that democracy and law should be the first priority. So his spirituality and aspirations are more relevant today than ever. Our job, I believe, is to preserve this Madácho for our grandchildren, to pass on his spirituality to our children. Of course, the Democratic Coalition Group supports the organisation of the Madách Year, but we hope that, for once, we will indeed be able to celebrate this, and this Madách Memorial Year will not be used for another theft by you, my pro-government colleagues... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off again.]]
u2023-02-28-136	Congressman, thank you very much, you're finished, so we're moving on. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-02-28-137	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2023 we celebrate Imre Madách, who was born on 20 January 1823 in Alsóstregova, Nógrád County, in addition to the day of the birth of the Hymn. From childhood he struggled with pulmonary disease, gout, and heart disease, so he studied privately, took his exams at the Piarists' high school in Vác. Imre Madách learned several languages, German, French, Slovak, English, Latin and even Ancient Greek, and gained insight into the world of classical and modern literature, not only in Hungarian, but also in these languages directly. He applied to the National Guard in the War of Independence, but he could not participate effectively in the battles because of his health. His main work is Man's Tragedy. The first version of Man's Tragedy was already made under the title Lucifer. The tragedy of man, written by the poet, is the main work of his life, which made him immortal in literature, also reflects the central element of Imre Madách's life and ars poeticism, faith and struggle, the importance of this. Let me quote a sentence from his main work. I told you, man, fight and trust. Imre Madách was a great philosopher poet, wishing to serve patriotism in a exalted spirit. In the world of profanity, he wanted to make the unifying philosophical thinking general. Three's passion was to illuminate Madách's attempt on human life. This threefold passion, which had penetrated his life, was a search for God and a yearning for faith, a yearning for love, and a sense of patriotism. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is our duty to cultivate and maintain this wonderful legacy with the utmost respect and humility, so it is especially important to celebrate the Madách Bicentennial. The KDNP faction supports this proposal for a decision. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-28-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Hiller, former vice-president. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-139	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman and Congressman Lords! In connection with Madách Memorial Year, it is worth remembering this great personality. This has also been done by the authors and speakers. I would like to think, together with you, about the role that memory years play, how it is worth considering, and how it can be best for Madách Memorial Year in particular. It is clear that the rapporteur's proposal, as well as the proposal for a decision, is supported by our political community and our faction, and we will vote for it. There are cases in which I think we need to think across opposition and government because we have one country. By the way, what has been said about Madách's life, whether his personal destiny, his political opinion, and all the ways in which private life and public life have been linked in the fate of this otherwise truly talented man, presents an era. Let me therefore say that one of the speeches said that the current Europe wants to rephrase itself. One of the greatest features of Europeanism is that it wants to redefine itself from time to time. [[16.50]] The era in which Madách lived, where he was born, and in which he was active, was very much like that when he reworded himself. The fact that rewording, redefining are successful and useful is not known in advance. In any case, the age of XIX. With regard to the self-defining of the century and our country, especially the last third of the century will make us understand why the sufferings and struggles of the first half and the second third of the century were worthy of the result. Now, if we try to frame this together, then we can be aware that, as in this year, so in the years to come, we are faced with the case, the situation of more excellence, who has made lasting things in the life of our nation, and I would also like to talk about this far beyond this nation's field of vision and interest, then how should we do that? I say all this because we remember, remember and remind the great poet, Sándor Petőfi, again this year, and your suggestion is that it is also right for Imre Madách. Here sits the Secretary of State for Culture. Clearly, it is not easy to understand this now with this country, with younger people and with older people. In 2003, we held the first commemorative year, indeed the country and the nation as a whole, by the government of Péter Medgyessy, which was the Deák Memorial Year just 20 years ago. We were personally confronted with the fact that we had been drawn to our attention earlier, that just a hundred years before that, János Neumann was born a hundred years earlier than in 2003. And everyone who went to school in Hungary knows that three hundred years earlier, the Rákóczi Freedom Fight broke out, so we were standing there with this dilemma that, please, should we set any priorities here? Or how do we tell a 14-year-old to remember the Rákóczi Freedom Fight, Deák or Neumann better? You are equally struggling with this dilemma because it is so pointless to ask who is more important in the Hungarian cultural history: Sándor Petőfi or Imre Madách? I strongly advise you, and I ask you to consider that anyone, whether they are the community or the individual, is driving Hungarian public opinion into this non-existent dilemma, because this makes no sense at the level of the question. But then there is the fact that we need to know two defining personalities in our culture, in public opinion, in public opinion, and it is very important not only to put them in the right place in intellectuals. Therefore, since the Petőfi Memorial Year has already been announced and I have to live with all criticisms here; although the spring session started yesterday, in this sense the first parliamentary meeting of 2023, but I would have liked to have listened to the same proposals and suggestions last November and December, with a kind of conscious preparation for the Memorial Year. Because yet we are in a position to remember Madách's 200th birthday here in the Hungarian Parliament, that was already done, as he was born on 20 January. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in memory of Imre Madách, we have been through very worthwhile and valuable events. This is not the beginning of the story by talking about it in the Hungarian Parliament. For example, one day before the birthday in the birthplace of Alsósztregova, on 19 January, the Museum of Hungarian Culture in Slovakia organized an event that was particularly worthwhile. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there was a memorial at our southern borders, Lendván, and that is very right. It is right that not just a country, but a nation, should be able to remember this, but once again, in support of the opinion and proposal of the honourable authors: it would have been better if the same words had been spoken in November; just in order not to create a hierarchy of Petőfi Memorial Year and Madách Memorial Year. By the way, the analysis of what is permanent, what is valuable, fortunately, is not entitled to politics. Politics should create the framework for creation! It finances or co-finances and, in particular, grants freedom to create creation, and each of us, as individuals, considers this part or part of the oeuvre, or considers it more worthwhile, but fortunately as politicians, it is not necessary to judge what color or which work is better. As a private person, István Hiller has an opinion on which he prefers, and I would even say which he might understand more, less so, but the Member of Parliament does not have to have an opinion and a rating on what a literary, artistic work is, by the way. But there is also a need to talk about postlife, because the great and lasting thing is that, as Petőfi said in his life... the congressman rightly says, that when the tragedy of man was born, Sándor Petőfi had no longer lived for 12 years. But Madách, when he wrote The Tragedy of Man, was 38 years old, and at 38 years old he had to think about it and experience that, by the way, 12 years ago, the other, whom he undoubtedly thought highly of by his own age, and not only because of the National Song, obviously, he is no longer. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, say, in two years' time, in 2025, I am sure, and it is worth remembering -the Széchenyi speech; the Széchenyi turning to the Parliament and symbolically opening of the reform. And then about the Parliament that actually accepted the first steps and made the offerings to create the Hungarian Society of Sciences and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. A year later, also one of the decisive years of the Reform Day, in 1826 it will be now, in 2026 two hundred years, that it is worth remembering that this is the memory of the Battle of Mohács in 1526. Now, which one's more important? What I would like to say is that you, proposers and, in the professional sense, the majority accepting the budget, and the ministry and the secretary of state, should pay attention to the fact that at school and not only at school, at the individual symbolic places where you were born, and not only where there were really memorials to be carved into the head, memory and consciousness of the current generation who Imre Madách was. It's not that simple a task. [[17.00]] Not because the language on which they wrote and thought, whether Jókai or Deák, is becoming more and more difficult to understand for a young Hungarian today, while the oeuvre, the experience and lesson, let's think about it... undoubtedly a young man born in the county of Nógrád, thinking about the things of the world and the millennia of history, was able to grasp it so that today, in February 2023, it is still memorable and, by the way, entered into the world literature as a serious work. That is the main basis for moving this forward. And please, there's another part, afterlife. It is worth recalling all these great artists, from graphic designer to wonderful actor and actress, the great theatre director, or even the memorable film, when later creators of later eras were able to make it timely and memorable in their own time. Obviously, the reason I don't list names is because there are so many people that I'm afraid to miss one, but our generation must remember that wonderful performance when it showed Adam and Eve, the struggle with the great actress, and then made it memorable from scene to scene for a young generation who wanted to think about the world and wonder what Madách brought. Let us remember the director and directors who in later decades, whether between the two world wars or after the Second World War, were able to introduce Madách, the tools of the new technique. I think that we are doing the right thing not simply by presenting the series of events of the oeuvre, of each year, but by how Hungarian culture kept this great creator's oeuvre awake during the period of various political arrangements. If we are on this path, we can commemorate together in 2023, and in memory, the memory of Sándor Petőfi in the heads and souls, and carry it forward, and in the same way the name, creation and memory of Imre Madách. I hope that the idea is not simply an adopted proposal for a resolution, but it generates a year that will be memorable to the growing and youngest. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President, thank you for listening. [[Applause.]]
u2023-02-28-140	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the rare moments of grace that comes before this House is a proposal that can be supported by all the factions, and our conservative community can do this support without any additional sub-phrases starting with,, but also with all the other words. He was right about Ildikó Sírató, a literary historian, when he once said that January 1823 created stars in Hungarian culture. This is when the Hymn was born, when Petőfi was born, when Imre Madách was born, and therefore Babits was right, who basically stated that the works of Kölcsey, Petőfi and Madách embody the Hungarian spirit and our spiritual heritage, which is our duty to transfer. With regard to the triple bicentennial, this is an excellent opportunity, in your hands, on the pro-government side, which is the excellent speech of my fellow Member, which he has just said, with this content; to fill in the content with the richest possible content, to which Jobbik can provide his full support. Obviously it doesn't mean much, it's a symbolic political gesture on our part, there is a great need for as many of these common points as possible, and then perhaps the excruciating problems that make Hungarian society really miserable in its everyday lives would ease somewhat. Madácho is considered to be a one-volume author, although he was not, yet it was his deep philosophical work, dealing with mankind's final and great questions It was the tragedy of man that was unsurpassable in his life's work. It was said here that it was translated into almost 40 languages. It was also translated into Estonian, where it had a real cult, as it meant belonging to European culture against violent Russianisation and Soviet oppression. The story of Man's tragedy was adventurous in such a way that people of a spiritual culture could relate to him. Prohaszka Ottakar specifically condemned him, for he considered this work morally destructive because of the focus of Lucifer's cynicism, and thought it harmful. He was protected by László Ravasz, but the real run was during communism, when it was practically banned after 1947, because they saw the mockery of communist utopia in the colour of the phalanster. In 1954, when the Imre Nagy relief occurred, they could put him back on the stage, but then Rákosi came, and according to the culture policy of Lukács he was once again considered anti-popular, and only in 1957 he could be re-staged. I think Madách has donated something to the nation and to the general culture that we really have a dog to appreciate. I wish you, on the pro-government side, a great deal of wisdom in order to complete this memorial year with the greatest, brightest content possible. So the Jobbik will support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2023-02-28-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the group of our country is Dócs Dávid, Member of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-143	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I promise to be brief, because my fellow Members who spoke before me gave a very detailed account of both the work of Imre Madách's life and his life. I think that two of my fellow Members from Nógrád County have maximized this opportunity, and they have really covered in all respects the importance of the writer in the history of literature, but it is sad that the tragedy is still real in some opposition speeches, rather than trying to live this year 2023 as a national holiday and a commemorative year, because I think that the 200th anniversary of the writer's birth and his outstanding literary work are also worth celebrating for. Imre Madách's life's work should be proud of the whole nation. Hungarian literature and drama poetry is a prominent figure, and this proposal for a resolution is aimed at strengthening this, which, of course, is also supported by the Hungarian Movement with full breast width, free of policy. Man's tragedy is one of the most valuable philosophical poems of world literature. It is now translated into more than 40 languages, and the dramatic poem can be read in German from Portuguese to Bulgarian. His name is intertwined with the Hungarian play in Transylvania, as the theater premiere of his most famous work, The tragedy of man, took place in Cluj-Napoca, directed by Ede Paulay of Cluj-Napoca, and shortly thereafter the work was presented in the treasured city in 1883, but in Transylvanian Hungarian life, becoming a minority, it played a very important role decades later, as it became a test for preserving and proving the identity of the nation. [[17.10]] In the life of the Tragedy alone, the era of communism, as many have already mentioned after 1945, caused a real spiritual campaign against him in parallel with the establishment of the dictatorship, mainly because the phalanster was interpreted and judged as a mockery of communist utopia, and the drama itself as a reactionary, religious and anti-progress work. Madách's personality is particularly close to me as a native Nógrádian, since in 1823 the poet saw the light of day and spent most of his life here. In my hometown, Balassagyarmat, he studied and worked as a sub-notary of the bravest city. For my county, therefore, it is especially heartwarming when the whole nation remembers great things from our homeland. As a responsible national party, the Hungarian Movement considers it important to present our young people with outstanding role models in their profession, who will guide future generations with their oeuvre and patriotism, their will to do, and trusting the writer in trust and standing up for our goals, fighting for them. The proposal for a decision is therefore, of course, supported. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-144	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy checked in in in writing. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let me begin by saying that for the Democratic Coalition, the protection of Hungarian cultural heritage, the care of it and the ability to show this heritage to future generations in a manner worthy of the way that this heritage has been created are of paramount importance. This is true, of course, for Imre Madách's oeuvre, and I therefore propose to the honourable decision-makers that it is worth releasing Madách's work, his oeuvre, his whole life and his messages from the day-to-day politics. It is often found in politics that when they think of a writer, a poet, that he fits into what they say in the course at that time, they naturally point his picture on a board and make him fit for political speeches. I would think that Imre Madách's life's work is much more stratified, wiser, nobler, and therefore I would suggest that the whole contents of the Memorial Year really be about Imre Madách, that he commemorate his life's work, and that it should not be used specifically for party political purposes. In addition, Madách really considered himself liberal, according to literary historians, to be a straight cosmopolitan, who really criticized the age in which he lived and the, say, county system or ispanese system in which he lived, and unfortunately lost his life at a very young age, so he couldn't really live to see that his main work, The Tragedy of Man, which had already received great attention at the moment of his appearance, really gained the glory and the recognition that he would have rightly expected of him. With one sentence, while many people quote the very important sentence and the veritable sentence "Struggle and Trust," I would also like to devote a sentence to his work Moses, the basic message of which is that whoever was born in captivity will feel trapped in his freedom, even if he was born in captivity. I think this is also a very important message for Imre Madách. I also think it is important, given that... and here I would like to attach a little bit to the words of my fellow Member, István Hiller, that we try to capture the motion picture possibilities that exist in the repositories, because we have to recognise Madácho today as difficult to read, and we have to pay close attention to every word he says when one reads, so that there is such a strong essence of life wisdom, and such a strong essence of how he clashes arguments, relationships between men and women, between souls and bodies, and along with the whole history that it was really quite amazing that a man, a Hungarian noble, is coveting with it in his solitude, and that this comes out of his hands, and, I say, it is difficult to read, and I am not criticizing young people today, and I am not now the young people of my age, too, it was very difficult to convince that it was mandatory to read, read, read, read, or rather not read. But I remembered here, as I was preparing for this little speech, two motion picture processings that I think are worth preserving, showing on television, movies, anywhere. One is a 1969 TV film, we have it in the archives, directed by Miklós Sinetár, Péter Huszti, László Mensáros and Marianna Moór play the main roles, this is a 1969 TV film, and the other is Marcell Jankovics' cartoon, the preparation of which started before the regime change, but finally it was only made in 2011. Both of these works, I think, are worthy of being dusted off, taken out, have behind both works a creative team, which, I think, deserves to carry on this noble heritage, so I recommend to the organizers that they do not forget this. And I think that in 1888, for example, Madách had an exhibition, and he did not live in the tragedy of man, which appeared illustrated by the drawings of Jenő Zichy. I think it's worth considering the release of a reprint and perhaps getting it to the bookstores. This certainly won't be a cheap party, as they say nowadays, but I think that collectors, or those who care about Hungarian literature or Hungarian cultural history, might sacrifice this money and buy it on their bookshelf. What I still think is important to note in this case is that if we look for current messages between Madách's messages, the phalanster and the Eskimo scene is not only about whether it is communism or not, but there are very, very important sentences and thoughts about the danger that our Earth, the natural heritage, is in. It's like talking about today. It is as if it is expressing the concerns that today, if you like, environmental movements or civilian movements are signalling to the world with a huge exclamation mark. And let me also quote a few sentences from the Prague scene by the end of my speech, because if all dictatorships have problems with Madách Imre, then I think that's very right, have a problem, because Madách Imre was smart and wise enough. I'm quoting the Prague color. They're gonna laugh about it at some point. / The man of state, whom we called great, / The Orthodox, whom we stared, / He sees posterity as a comedy, / If true greatness is replaced, / The simple and natural, / Which jumps only where there is a pit, / Ottan leaves a way where space is opened. / And the doctrine that now leads to madness, / Intricateness, then, / Although no one learns, everyone understands. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Let this be a lesson for all, long live Imre Madách, long live the heritage of Madách, and long live the Madách Memorial Year! Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] [[17.20]]
u2023-02-28-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the authors how they wish to respond to what has been said in the debate. Congressman Mihály Balla would like to speak. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today's general debate also revealed that Madách is universal, regardless of the age and location we are at. There have been quite a number of opinions and, among them, there have been primarily supportive opinions on the Madách year, and I thank you very much for that. Of Madách's heroes, I do not want to bring Eve into this story, because her person in the different colors of Adam's disappointment has always been a solution and a solution. The world vision that Madách has shown from his own personality is, on the one hand, a luciferi and, on the other hand, an Adamian thought world, where Adam always naively turns into a new era in a new historical color and has great expectations for him, but at the end of the colors he always has a kind of disappointment in which Lucifer continues and constantly tries to draw him into doubt and doubt. But as Csaba Andor Madách said, the genius of the work is that as many people read it, it is interpreted in so many ways. However, let me not leave behind what my colleague Balázs Barkóczi said on this subject. I don't think Madách had such far-reaching association. Madáchot The tragedy of man cannot necessarily be interpreted from an actual political point of view as you thought. As Congressman Gréczy said, Madách has the Moses drama, which he wrote specifically about 1848-49, about the leadership of the nation and how a nation, a community, and a people can get over their problems in a prison with the leaders. This can also be interpreted in several ways. I don't know if Congressman Barkóczi has read it, but I'm sure you've read it, then revive it... [[Balázs Barkóczi: I am a Hungarian language and literature teacher, just like you, Congressman!]]
u2023-02-28-148	My fellow Members, this is not a dialogue!
u2023-02-28-149	Then I suggest you also read the satire The Civilizer, in which, in the name of modernity, Stroom, the Austrian official, leaves, and Uncle István tries to modernize the world on his land of village farmer tradition and do all sorts of strange things. I think the satire would also show the way you are now dealing with this issue, especially because I think it is also a Madach heritage. Thank you very much to my fellow Member Hiller for bringing up the commemoration in Lower Stregovo on 19 January, and in particular for the fact that various cross-border cooperation programmes have been implemented in cultural institutions. On the one hand, the Lower Stregovo mansion and the castle have been renovated in recent years, and on the other hand, an interactive showroom has been created about Man's tragedy, which I think can make all age groups enjoy and understand the thoughts and suggestions of colours. On the other hand, as Congressman Gréczy said, Zichy's illustrations are masterpieces, masterpieces, and perhaps even a true premiere. Zichy's painting is a true summary, synthesis of the knowledge that Zichy has shown. A good idea of this exhibition is that the exit corridor, which will escort you through the exhibition halls and then escort you out of the exhibition halls, will escort you out with these exact images, leaving you with the last experience to grasp not only the meaning of the work, but also certain visual elements, as Zichy's works seem to have been made for stage pictures, the moments that he considered important, interpreting in his own way The tragedy of man. Fucking with his wife, they have a mansion, and there's a Madach exhibit. It's a crime scene today, but they're both where students, scientists, people can even go and visit. I think that in these locations, communities or counties, there is always the possibility of remembering Madách. On 20 January each year, during Madách days, Madách awards will be awarded in county organisation, cultural and municipal organisation. Here I note that Péter Huszti and Marcell Jankovics are also part of this award, which they were very happy to receive. It also included the fact that their wording in the film world and in the visual world was passed on as an inheritance to posterity. Those who have expressed their support for their views and presentation have spoken in support of the proposal for a resolution itself, thank you very much. And I trust that when we vote on it, we may be able to stop time a little bit. As the ethnographer Dömötör Tekla wrote about folk customs, about folk holidays: when we celebrate something, we suspend time in our souls a little bit, and in this suspended time we can rejoice together about what is happening around us. Thank you very much for the supporting comments, the supporting contributions, and I would ask you to show this in your votes on the day of decision-making. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The draft law between the Parties to the South East European Convention for Police Cooperation on the Publication of the Implementation Agreement between DNA data, Dactiloscopic data and the Agreement on the automated exchange of motor vehicle registration data and the Agreement between the Parties to the South East European Convention for Police Cooperation on the Publication of the Implementation Agreement between the Parties to the Agreement on the automated exchange of DNA data, Dactiloscopic data and vehicle registration data, and the draft law on the publication of the Protocol between the Parties to the South East European Convention for Police Cooperation on the automated exchange of DNA data, Dactiloscopy data and vehicle registration data until the closure. Government referrals T/2996, T/2997, and T/2998. can be accessed by numbers on the House's IT network for all of us. I now give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the rapporteur of the report, who will present this report here on the stand. There you go. You have the floor. [[17 .30]]
u2023-02-28-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, The South East European Police Cooperation Convention, hereinafter referred to as the Framework Agreement, was signed by seven countries in Vienna on 5 May 2006: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania and Serbia. The Convention entered into force on 10 October 2007. The latter was extended to 12 members, and Serbia became its depositary. Six of its members are EU Member States, Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, Romania and Slovenia, and six are non-EU members. The main forms of cooperation covered by the Framework Agreement are the exchange of information, cross-border hotspot persecution, cross-border surveillance, controlled transport, the use of an undercover investigator, witness protection, transfer and comparison of DNA profiles and other identification material, the establishment of a joint investigation team, joint border patrol and cooperation in joint centres. At the Ministerial level conference held in Vienna between 13 and 14 September 2008, Hungary also signed the Agreement on the automated exchange of DNA data, Dactiloscopic data and vehicle registration data between the Parties to the South East European Police Cooperation Convention and its implementation agreement. On 11 October 2019, the European Commission initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary, Austria, Bulgaria and Romania in view of the lack of compatibility of the Agreement with EU law. In order to bring the infringement procedure to an end by the Commission vis-à-vis EU members, a number of discussions have been held on the appropriate amendment of the agreement. The Protocol was signed by Hungary at the 22nd Ministerial Committee meeting on 30 November 2021, which was signalled to the Commission by the intervention of the Ministry of Justice. I trust that my brief presentation has convinced you that the publication of these agreements is for the right purposes and is very timely. In view of all this, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-152	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Balla. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm gonna have to change the subject a little bit. However, I think that this proposal from the government, these legislative proposals, which present police cooperation across several countries, because we are discussing these issues together, shows that, unfortunately, in recent years, the regrettable fact that crime knows no borders has been increasingly confirmed. For this reason, law enforcement agencies in each country need to carry out a kind of international cooperation within a regulated framework. The South East European Police Cooperation Convention is a special agreement as it coordinates the work of police and law enforcement bodies of non-EU and EU Member States at Schengen borders from here and beyond. It can be said that full implementation of the Convention, ratification, will help non-EU countries Parties to speed up their possible accession to the EU. In July 2012, Hungary joined the South East European Police Cooperation Convention, which was established in May 2006 by Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, Serbia and Montenegro. In recent years, the Convention has been ratified by several EU Member States outside Hungary. In the first half of 2021, Hungary carried out Presidency tasks arising from the implementation of the Convention. However, the toolbox for operational police cooperation should be constantly expanded. Criminals are trying to bypass the legal path by increasingly advanced technical means, and in response, the guards of the order must take advantage of advanced technology. Migration, terrorism, smuggling, i.e. serious and organised crime, the European Union's so-called Prüm system proves to be an effective law enforcement tool. The automated exchange of DNA, dactiloscopy and vehicle registration data allows Member States to obtain information through online searches in the investigation of thousands of criminal offences. Thus, an effective EU system can be used by countries in south-eastern Europe which are not yet members of the European Union. This cooperation process is to be settled by the three international legislative proposals before us. If we allow our neighbours who are not yet EU members to know and use an EU system, I believe that this will serve the security of Europe as a whole. This should not be a question of Fidesz's parliamentary group supporting the bill. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause.]]
u2023-02-28-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-02-28-155	Thank you very much. Dear House, In 2005, Western European countries Belgium, Germany, Spain, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Austria concluded multilateral agreements to strengthen the fight against internationalised crime. The Convention was later incorporated into the European Council's decision to strengthen cross-border cooperation, which has become mandatory for all EU Member States. The legislative proposals under discussion bring this decision into force by XCII of 2012. the countries of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention, as published by law, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Moldova, Serbia and Montenegro. The aim of the agreement is to strengthen cross-border police cooperation in the prevention, detection and investigation of criminal offences. The fight against cross-border crime can therefore become more effective thanks to DNA and dactiloscopy data and the online search for vehicle registers. In any case, the legislation has not ruled out the request for and the transfer of data in the event of a request, but the agreement will allow the exchange of data to be accelerated and the use of the data as evidence may take place much more frequently. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party proposes the adoption of the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause.]]
u2023-02-28-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-02-28-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The South East European Police Cooperation Convention was signed in 2006 by seven States in Vienna during the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU. The 12-membered cooperation is currently extended to six EU Member States: Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, Romania and Slovenia and six non-EU members, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Moldova, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia and Serbia. The law on the publication of the South East European Cooperation Convention entered into force in Hungary in 2012. The Convention regulates a number of forms of cooperation, including cross-border persecution and surveillance, the use of an undercover detective, witness protection and, for example, the transfer of physical DNA profiles and other identification material. In September 2018, a ministerial conference was held during which ministers agreed on an automated exchange on the Prüm model for the further development of this cooperation in relation to DNA, Dactiloscopic and Vehicle Registration Data and the implementation agreement of this Agreement. [[17.40]] Its added value lies primarily with regard to non-members of the Union for our country, as the agreement will speed up the exchange of data and in several cases may be used as evidence by making these reference data searchable online in real time and, on the other hand, by obtaining confirmation of which national database may have a hit on the search conditions and may request cooperation from the authorities of that party. In the case of motor vehicles, full online search options can make cooperation more effective in cases where, for example, data or an operator of a foreign vehicle should be established, simplifying and accelerating law enforcement work. The implementation agreement of the Agreement includes technical and administrative provisions relating to and necessary for its implementation. The need for a protocol amending the Agreement is justified by the fact that in 2019 the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary, Austria, Bulgaria and Romania. In the Commission's view, the agreement is incompatible with EU law, meaning a duplication of EU-wide Prüm type data exchange between Member States, since it is not clear from the agreement that the exchange of data between Member States takes place under EU law. Furthermore, only the Commission has the right to certify that personal data are protected at an appropriate level by a third country. In order to remedy these criticisms, Article 1 of the Amending Protocol updates the data protection provisions in order to comply with the EU data protection system and Article 2 ensures the primacy of Union law. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the foregoing, KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. I now ask Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 16 o'clock on Thursday. The general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Comprehensive Framework Agreement for Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Thailand, of the other part, is now now taking place. The government referral is T/3000. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Azbej Tristan, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill before you is to recognise the mandatory scope of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of Malaysia, of the other part. Please allow me first to briefly describe the purpose and content of the agreement on which the bill is based. Partnership and Cooperation Agreements are the legal basis for institutionalised political dialogue between the European Union and its Member States and third countries. Malaysia is the fifth state in the South East Asian region, with which a partnership agreement has been finalised. The EU has previously established similar agreements with Indonesia, the Philippines, Singapore and Vietnam. The partnership agreement with Thailand was also signed at the same time as the Malaysian agreement. The agreement with Malaysia is an important step forward for the enhanced political and economic engagement of the European Union in South-East Asia, which is to strengthen political dialogue...
u2023-02-28-160	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary. We are talking about Thailand, and then we will have the Malaysian debate and not the joint debate, so first I would like to talk about Thailand and then Malaysia. This is our order, and I have presented this, so I respectfully ask that we proceed on this basis, because you referred to both of them because one was born in parallel with the other, but this is not a joint debate like the previous one, but a separate debate, so I ask you with respect. Thank you.
u2023-02-28-161	Sorry about the change of order, and then the T/3000. I'm going to go to the expose of the bill, which, by the way, is almost identical in its content and genre to that of the other item on the agenda. Therefore, I can say this time again that, as a matter of principle, it is, like the one on the other agenda, that partnership cooperation agreements are a legal basis for institutionalised relations between the European Union and its Member States and third countries, i.e. in the case of the right item on the agenda with Thailand. Thailand is the sixth state in the Southeast Asian region, with which a partnership agreement has been finalised. The agreement with Thailand is an important step forward for the enhanced political and economic engagement of the European Union in Southeast Asia. The agreement will help to enhance political, regional and global cooperation between the two partners and provide a basis for promoting the wider political and economic interests of the EU. The Agreement sets out a more comprehensive basis for relations between the European Union and Thailand and enhances dialogue in a number of mutually beneficial policy areas such as the environment, energy, climate change, transport, science and technology, trade, human rights protection, education, agriculture, the fight against terrorism, the fight against organised crime and migration. Cooperation with the countries of Southeast Asia is a key element of Hungary's eastern opening policy, in which we actively support further expansion of the multifaceted relationship between the European Union and the region. The international agreement to be announced by the bill will meet this ambition. Dear House, ASEAN, of which Thailand is a member, has a total population of nearly 656 million people, making it the third largest market in the world after China and India. ASEAN is expected to be the world's fourth largest economic zone after the United States, China and the European Union by 2030. From a Hungarian point of view, it is of the utmost importance that we develop a long-term partnership with an increasingly important region on the world market. The dialogue between the East and the West has recently become even more appreciated, and constructive dialogue and cooperation can be a guarantee of peace and security. We therefore welcome the growing presence of the European Union in the region, the adoption of the EU's Indonesia-Pacific strategy and the organisation of high-level summits. On 14 December 2022, the EU-ASEAN Jubilee Summit was held for the first time, represented at the level of Heads of State and Government of both the European Union and ASEAN Member States. One of the outstanding achievements of the summit was the signing of partnership and cooperation agreements in Thailand and Malaysia. Thailand is a key partner for our country, with whom we established a diplomatic relationship in 1973, with which we celebrate the 50th anniversary of this year. In addition to developing our political relations, the signing of the agreement will pave the way for the reopening of negotiations on free trade agreements with Thailand, which we are committed to supporting on the Hungarian side. [[17.50]] Dear Parliament, The publication of the agreement supports Hungary's efforts to strengthen and deepen cooperation with and through third countries as a member of the European Union. That is why I ask the honourable Members and gentlemen to support and accept the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-28-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Balla. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-163	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill on the international treaty before us, the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and Thailand, helps to address the current common geopolitical challenges in a number of areas. Asia's global political weight has undoubtedly increased significantly in recent years. It is therefore necessary for the European Union to redefine its agreements with ASEAN countries. This Agreement replaces the current legal framework for the 1980 Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the member states of ASEAN. Thailand is a major member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, a country with the second largest market in the region, and with Thailand, as Mr Secretary of State has said, we are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the admission of diplomatic relations this year. Our age has faced so many challenges in terms of both the economy and the epidemiological situation. However, we can say that bilateral relations between Thailand and Hungary are sound and excellent. Although the geographical distance between our countries is great, I believe that the spirituality of the two nations shows many similarities. The dialogue between the East and the West must be based on mutual respect, in addition to common interests. In this way, the Fidesz parliamentary group supports the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with Thailand. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-28-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-02-28-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members present. Dear Secretary of State, The purpose of the bill is to publish an agreement between the European Union and its Member States and, of course, Thailand by law. Of the countries of Southeast Asia, after Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam, Singapore and the also ongoing Malay Agreement, this will be the sixth, which was established between the Member States of the European Economic Community and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and will replace the 1980 Cooperation Agreement. The agreement is most routine, mainly about strengthening cooperation and exchange of information in all areas of life, from human rights to the rule of law, law enforcement, education, health, environmental protection, employment, trade, energy to international standards, so the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the adoption of this bill. Thank you for your preparation, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause.]]
u2023-02-28-166	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, please.
u2023-02-28-167	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The relationship between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand, as the Secretary of State and my colleague, my colleague, stressed, goes back a long time because this year we are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the admission of diplomatic relations between the two countries. For our country, cooperation with the countries of Southeast Asia is a major area of eastern opening policy, and therefore we also actively support the strengthening of a multifaceted relationship with the region. The objective of the proposed legislation is to publish a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation in law between the European Union and its Member States and the Kingdom of Thailand. Such partnership and cooperation agreements shall also serve as the legal basis for institutionalised political dialogue between the Union, the Member States and third countries. This Framework Agreement replaces the legal framework of the former 1980 Cooperation Agreement. The Agreement sets out a more comprehensive basis for relations between the European Union and Thailand and could pave the way for a free trade agreement, which was suspended after the military coup in 2014. The Framework Agreement will help to deepen relations with the countries of the South East Asian region and would make progress in the region in terms of the increased political and economic engagement of the Union. It provides opportunities for more effective cooperation, with its institutionalisation, to strengthen political dialogue and cooperation, including in the areas of taxation, education, investment or humanitarian aid, with a wide range of subjects. This enhanced cooperation option would include, for example, the fight against climate change and the protection of the environment and natural resources. The Parties reaffirm and express their commitment to the effective implementation of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in Rio de Janeiro on 9 May 1992 and the Paris Agreement adopted in Paris in December 2015 and the objectives and objectives set out in these documents. The Parties would also step up policy cooperation to promote climate change mitigation and adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change. Furthermore, cooperation in the field of environmental and natural resources would facilitate the efficient use of resources, the preservation and improvement of the environment with a view to achieving sustainable development. Under the Framework Convention, the Parties would endeavour to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the relevant multilateral environmental agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, The agreement with Thailand is a modern partnership and cooperation agreement that reflects the new EU policies and has significant political weight beyond economic and technical relations and is therefore supported by KDNP. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2023-02-28-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Péter Balassa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Honourable Members, The relationship goes back over 50 years, because T/3000. In 1869, János Xantus, a scientist, who was the director-general of the Hungarian plant and zoo, already represented Hungary personally with an Austrian-Hungarian delegation. So relationships go back a long way. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. And at the end of the century, these relationships officially began, and they, thank God, still live and work. It is the framework agreement itself: they always say that an agreement is worth as much as it is respected. Thank God this works, and it can be said that this framework agreement, which has been laid down through 37 pages and is now being negotiated, can be said to be operational and acceptable. The Parliament hereby authorises, by law, the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Kingdom of Thailand, on the other. This Agreement replaces the current legal framework for the annual cooperation agreement between the European Economic Community and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the member states of ASEAN. This represents further progress on the increased political and economic engagement of the European Union in Southeast Asia. It offers more effective cooperation in important areas such as trade, tourism, technology and innovation. Thailand is the sixth ASEAN partner with which such extensive cooperation can be established after Indonesia, Vietnam, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia. Thailand has long been the partner of the European Union in Asia. This agreement strengthens the cooperation on which Josep Borrell, High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, said that this agreement highlights the importance and potential of our bilateral relations. [[18.00]] The EU and Thailand are committed to working together to promote an international system based on rules and to promote regional prosperity and stability. We hope that this agreement will provide a new basis for the EU, its Member States and Thailand to respond more effectively to current global challenges and problems. Thank you for listening.
u2023-02-28-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask you, there is someone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Azbej Tristan, State Secretary, if he would like to conclude on what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of Malaysia, of the other part, will follow. The government referral is T/2999. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I give the floor to Secretary of State Azbej Tristan, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill that is being negotiated is similar from a legal point of view to the one that we have just discussed. [[Sic!]] This time in Malaysian relations. For the sake of the Protocol, I would therefore like to reiterate that the purpose of the bill before you is to recognise the mandatory scope of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of Malaysia, of the other part. As mentioned in the previous bill, the establishment of an agreement institutionalises the political dialogue between the Member States of the European Union and Malaysia, providing a basis for more effective cooperation between countries. The selected areas of this cooperation include several policy areas such as human rights, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism, the fight against corruption, trade, migration, the environment, energy, science and technology, employment and social issues, education, agriculture and culture. Pursuant to the Agreement, Parties undertake to share experience and good practices in the policy areas concerned and to organise regular meetings of the Technical Committee in order to review and advance cooperation. It is an important opportunity to open the way for the conclusion of free trade agreements. Partnership and cooperation agreements previously concluded by the European Union with other countries in the Southeast Asian region often serve as a positive example. In all cases, our institutional relations have undergone significant improvements, and the signing of these agreements has been followed by the finalization of free trade agreements for Vietnam and Singapore. Dear House, Cooperation with the countries of Southeast Asia is a key element of Hungary's eastern opening policy, in which we actively support further expansion of the multifaceted relationship between the European Union and the region. The international agreement to be announced by the bill will meet this ambition. As I said in the previous debate, this is an extremely important market. The ASEAN region is the third largest market in the world and, as I mentioned earlier, will be the fourth largest economic zone in the world by 2030 after the United States, China and the European Union. From a Hungarian point of view, it is of the utmost importance that we develop a long-term partnership with an increasingly important region on the world market. Malaysia is a key partner for our country, with whom we established a diplomatic relationship in 1969, which has undergone dynamic development since the reopening of our Kuala Lumpur embassy in 2015. In addition to the development of our political relations, the signing of the agreement opens the way for the reopening of negotiations on free trade agreements with Malaysia, which we consider to be of Hungarian interest, and we are committed to supporting it on the Hungarian side. In terms of trade flows, Malaysia is the third most important partner of the ASEAN region for both the European Union and Hungary, thus increasing our trade relations to a higher level is timely. Dear Parliament, The publication of the agreement supports Hungary's efforts to strengthen and deepen its cooperation with third countries as a member of the European Union and to develop our bilateral relations through this. That is why I ask the honourable Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-02-28-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're at the end of the keynote speeches... yeah, not yet! I'm getting a little ahead of myself. Maybe I just want to be there. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, and I apologise to everyone.
u2023-02-28-173	Thank you very much, Mr President, but we have a lot in common, just as Mr Secretary of State was confused by the number of legislative proposals. In the previous laws there was an established sequence of numbers, T/2996-97, and then came the 2999, but it was not the line, but the T/3000, and now President has also accelerated this sequence of numbers, the established opposition order. I really think it's T/2999. The present legal framework for the 1980 Agreement between the European Economic Community and the member states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, which will be concluded with Malaysia, will be replaced by the previous bill. We could also say that in the previous proposal. Thus, the framework partnership and cooperation agreement with Malaysia is the fifth of the second generation agreements with each ASEAN country, which can be finalised following agreements with Indonesia, the Philippines, Singapore and Vietnam. Like Thailand, Hungary is seeking mutual cooperation with Malaysia, and we consider it an important partner in the Southeast Asian region. The diplomatic relations between Hungary and Malaysia took place in 1969 and since 2019 a bilateral economic cooperation agreement has been in place between our countries. Although we are also talking about a geographically distant country, Malaysia and I are also taking a close position on most global challenges. This can provide a sound basis for close cooperation on the international stage, which I believe this bill can only deepen. Of course, our group supports the adoption of a legislative proposal for a framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the European Union and Malaysia. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-02-28-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. There you go. You have the floor. [[18.10]]
u2023-02-28-175	Thank you very much. If we can continue with the numerology, then this bill will not be the sixth one, but the fifth one in this row. So if we're being very honest right now, you could say that you're apologizing to the Secretary of State, because if you take that order, then you're absolutely right, but sometimes the smaller one is the bigger one. But seriously, I think, in any case, in a similar way to the previous framework agreement, that this is also a legislative proposal at a sufficiently timely time. It is clear that the internal and external policies of the parties are based on the principles set out in international human rights documents, the rule of law, climate change and the fight against corruption, and it is clear that bilateral relations, regional and international cooperation are involved. Cooperation in international peace, security and stability is obviously important, trade and investment cooperation is important. Cooperation in the field of justice, freedom and security is important in a number of areas, and it is obviously also very important to have economic policy dialogue, exchange of experience, industrial policy cooperation with a view to increasing the competitiveness of SMEs, but we can talk about cooperation in areas of mutual interest in science and technology. It is obvious that we can talk about energy, the development of renewable energy, transport policy, education and culture. It is clear here that a better understanding of each other's cultures is extremely important, so it is important to support cultural diversity, to encourage the exchange of information, know-how, students, experts, young people, youth, helpers and technical resources. Obviously, we can also talk about environmental and natural resources, agriculture, health care, a number of projects. It is important to harmonise statistical methods, which, in turn, makes it possible to process and analyse data, it is important to promote the role of civil society and, of course, to promote dialogue. And what is very important: to do so, the appropriate resources must, of course, be made available, and, thanks to the institutional framework, the parties will also set up a joint committee to secure the agreement, which will meet every two years. In the same way, I will not repeat, but that this is the fifth, which was established between the Member States of the European Economic Community and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and will replace the 1980 Cooperation Agreement. I can also repeat that this is indeed a routine agreement. Accordingly, like the Fidesz Group, the MSZP also supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
u2023-02-28-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2023-02-28-177	Thank you very much for the word, no one with patience will ever return alive. My fellow Member, my fellow Members and Secretary of State, This Framework Agreement replaces the legal framework of the former 1980 Cooperation Agreement. Although the agreement was already concluded in 2015, it has not been signed by 2022 due to the sharpening of palm oil between Malaysia, Indonesia and the EU. The Framework Agreement, as we have just said, will help to deepen relations with the countries of the South East Asian region and will make progress in terms of increased political and economic engagement in the region; it will provide opportunities for more effective cooperation, strengthening political dialogue with its institutionalisation and cooperation with a wide range of themes, including in the areas of taxation and education and investment. This enhanced cooperation option would also cover the protection of environmental and natural resources. The aim is to further strengthen cooperation in the field of environmental protection, including through regional programmes, exchange of best practices, political and regulatory dialogue, conferences and workshops. It is also stated in the document that the Parties are endeavouring to enhance cooperation on climate change mitigation and adaptation issues with regard to the already mentioned UN Framework Convention on Climate Change adopted in Rio de Janeiro. Just as Fidesz, as the MSZP, supports this bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-28-178	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Péter Balassa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Colleagues! The Jobbik-Conservatives will also support it. It deals in the same detail and describes the material in the same detail as the previous Thai Framework Agreement and Cooperation Agreement. I have already indicated that, as we have supported the Thai cooperation agreement, we will also support Malaysia. The Parliament authorises by law the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of Malaysia, of the other part. Jobbik, as a conservative pro-European community, welcomes any cooperation that serves to strengthen effective cooperation and political dialogue. This Agreement replaces the current legal framework of the 1980 Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, ASEAN, its Member States. The latest international ministerial meeting of the European Union and ASEAN was held in July 2021, where the two parties decided on regular meetings in order to strengthen economic and security cooperation and enhance relations in areas such as connectivity and development. This agreement is also important because the EU is an important trading partner and investor in Malaysia, so its emerging economy offers attractive trade opportunities for the EU, including our country. One important figure: EU-Malaya trade has increased by more than 50 percent since 2010, and Malaysia has been the EU's 20th largest trading partner in 2020 and the EU has been Malaysia's fifth largest trading partner. Malaysia is the third largest ASEAN market in the EU after Singapore and Vietnam. It is to be welcomed that the current Partnership and Cooperation Agreement concerns important areas such as trade, investment, environmental protection, tourism and energy. I don't have to tell you how prominent these cases are in the current world situation, do I? It is particularly welcome that further progress has been made with Malaysia, as our country has maintained good diplomatic relations with the country since 1969. There are also close cooperation on the international scene: Malaysia is popular among Hungarian tourists, nearly 33 thousand Hungarian visits were registered in the country between 2017 and 2021. Malaysia can be an example for all of us, since in 2021 the country's economy regained its lost momentum as a result of the Crown Virus pandemic and reached a 3.1 percent increase compared to a 5.5 percent decrease in the previous year. Malaysia was the third most important trading partner in Hungary in the ASEAN Member States of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in 2021. We hope that this agreement will be useful for both our country and the EU, help to develop in these areas and contribute to deepening relations. We support the proposal.
u2023-02-28-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'm going to ask Secretary of State Azbei Tristan if he'd like to take the floor. [[Asbej on Tristan's mark:]] No, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. At first, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Sas of the Jobbik Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, March 1 is the Day of Civilian National Security Services, the Day of the Establishment of National Security Services. Allow me to begin with a quote today: I will send you four words, and inculcate them well in your bosom, and for your son / Let them inherit if you pass out: I quote Ferenc Kölcsey, and we can safely say that we know the basis for the operation of domestic services between these lines. If the Hungarian secret services are not there, the country is defenceless: the country is defenseless against cyber attacks, it is defenceless against the influence and attacks of the counterintelligenced secret services. I think that nobody, no Hungarian person, has any interest in this being the case. [[18.20]] It is the Hungarian secret services who provide government actors, as well as us Parliamentary Members, with information on which useful and good decisions can be made, so their work is of paramount importance to the public. The staff of the services stood up during the Covid epidemic, and they stand up to it now, during the Russian-Ukrainian war. This is the war that has proven the importance of this area of national security. It is particularly important and so must we, as Members of Parliament, treat it. In today's accelerated world, we can see that the international security environment is constantly deteriorating, so in the Hungarian services, developments that have been delayed for a long time need to be implemented, as the anti-interesting secret services are also working with the most modern, most efficient tools, and it is in our common national interest that the Hungarian services can carry out their tasks with such equipment. The Hungarian services must operate legally and transparently, and civil control must be implemented in the manner laid down by law. At the same time, I think it is important that they are able to operate in such a way that they also have the support of society and the recognition of society, as it can greatly help their work. Finally, let me thank all the staff of the services for their excellent work as Members of Parliament or as Chairman of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, but mostly as Hungarian people. I wish you good luck, results, and thank you again for your work. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-02-28-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dávid Dócs, the notary of the Parliament, has applied for a post- Agenda speech from the Group of our countries. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-28-183	Mr President, Dear House, The situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians has not improved for decades, but has become increasingly hopeless, even though they would already have had autonomy in the 1991 valid referendum. It was a shameful act for the then Antall government to give up our Transcarpathian national brothers, and I hope that now the Orbán government will not do the same, especially in the light of the fact that Viktor Orbán pointed out yesterday in his speech: the Hungarian foreign affairs must clearly stand up and it must be made clear that the Transcarpathian Hungarians deserve more respect. All the more so, because they are in a position without their own fault to become enemies in their own homeland, but they are also part of our nation, and we cannot allow the Ukrainian state for decades to try to kill their Hungarians with language laws, threats, history forgery, continuous violations and atrocities. Because of the untenable situation, I asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs a written question about the measures and diplomatic means that the Government can guarantee the protection of Hungarians in Transcarpathia, what steps are being taken to protect our cultural traditions and national symbols and their lives. The answer, which came from the Secretary of State of Hungary Levente, was not much encouraging, and my question has actually remained unanswered, because although they condemn Ukrainian abuses and sanctions themselves, they have not been taken against them, and even the Hungarian Government stands by Ukraine after them, even though the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs himself said that we want and will defend the rights of Hungarian national communities all over the world, so of course Hungarians in Transcarpathia can count on Hungary, the Hungarian government, when it comes to enforcing their rights. Unfortunately, this is not the case in reality, as the rights of Transcarpathian Hungarians are being trampled on by two feet, and the men of the community are being hunted and held together, so that they can be used in the fiercest battles of the front line, mostly as bullet catchers. As long as half the world treats Ukrainian leadership as a hero, they will try to eliminate and eliminate the indigenous Hungarian minority on the western ends by selected methods. The case of the work Turul statue perfectly symbolized this process. However, this case was only one of many, unfortunately. Our national symbols, the Hungarian inscriptions, are being removed, the Hungarian intellectuals and leaders are being dismissed from their jobs, and they represent various forms of depression in the Hungarian settlements. The cases listed above show that the Ukrainian state wants to completely eliminate Hungarian language and cultural traditions from this region. This may have been the only case so far, but using the war, I would also like to physically disarm Transcarpathia. The Transcarpathian Hungarians, who are already halfway around now, are at risk of permanent disappearance, and should not wait for a holodomor of Transcarpathia to unfold. In terms of Fidesz's attitude, it is also a case that I would like to illustrate on the basis of the example of a Hungarian family in Transcarpathia fleeing from enlistment, because as long as the Ukrainians who have fled from Inner Ukraine receive financial support from the Hungarian government, our fellow countrymen and our national brothers who have fled Transcarpathia from the territory of historical Hungary do not, unfortunately, receive the same assistance. We have been calling on the Hungarian government for months to raise their voice in international forums much more strongly against the violations of the rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia, try to gain their rights and respect the Ukrainian state. Unfortunately, however, there is also an act of dual communication here, since this has not yet been achieved, only in rhetoric. On the other hand, the Mi Hazank Movement demands that the Hungarian government should stand up for our Hungarian countrymen, not for the Soviet Ukrainians, but for the slowly deprived Transcarpathians, and for Ukraine, rather than for EU membership, there will be an urgent call for account of the excesses that have been committed against our national brothers. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2023-02-28-184	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to thank my fellow Members, the room Commissioners, the technical staff and the minutes for their day-to-day work. The National Assembly will continue its work tomorrow, March 1, on the first day of the meteorological spring, at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a restful good night.
