u2023-06-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our meeting today. The 27th day of the Spring Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Agnes Vadai and Lajos Szűcs will be notaries of this meeting for my help. Next up is Hungary 2023. [[Sic!]] Continue and conclude the general debate on the draft law on its 2008 central budget. The bill is T/4181. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/4181/1. It was and still is accessible to all of us on our website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I now ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the distribution of the time frame available for the factions today. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-1	Dear Parliament, Today's six-hour timeframe is divided into 122 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 58 minutes for the KDNP Group; 34 minutes for the DK Group; 27 minutes for the Momentum Group; 27 minutes for the MSZP Group; 24 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 22 minutes for the Group of Hungary; 22 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 20 minutes for the LMP Group; and 4 minutes for the independent Members.
u2023-06-15-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear House, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the Members in accordance with the timeframes available for today. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First from the Fidesz Group is Mr János Halász. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In recent years, there have been huge changes in the world. Since last year, it has become clear to everyone that the decade ahead brings us an age of danger. After illegal migration and the pandemic, the Russian-Ukrainian war broke out, which, among other things, has resulted in an unprecedented energy crisis throughout Europe, including in our country, for decades. The draft budget for 2024 was unfortunately drawn up in wartime. While a few years ago it seemed unimaginable to have a war in Europe, it is now happening in our immediate neighbourhood, and we Hungarians also have to face the negative consequences. Unfortunately, in the current situation, all indications suggest that the war could go on for many years. The Hungarian people therefore rightly expect the government to protect them from the dangers. This is also the most important in relation to the budget of 2024: the budget provides the necessary resources for the protection of the country, in Hungarian, the country needs a defence budget. The country's security, the results of recent years, the reduction of the rent, family support, jobs, the value of pensions must be protected. Reading the chapters of the draft budget submitted to Parliament, which we have just discussed, we can state that it covers all the costs necessary to ensure the protection of Hungarian people. In short, the draft before us is a real defence budget. A budget that guarantees the country's physical and economic security. This is demonstrated by the increased resources allocated to defence expenditure in the budget of 2024 and the strengthening of the Defence Fund. This creates the sources of further defence improvements and strengthens the physical security of our country. With a fund of nearly HUF 1310 billion, spending on defence is still over 2 percent of GDP in 2024. Our security must be strengthened not only because of the war, but also because of migration threatening the Hungarian borders. The economic crisis caused by the war can trigger further waves of migration towards Europe, and Hungary has so far only been able to count on itself to protect borders. Our main goal remains to keep Hungary out of the war, not for the Hungarian people to pay for the war, and to keep the borders safe. Dear House, Family tax incentives will remain next year, and resources from the Rehabilitation Fund will also be provided. We can continue to maintain the premium scheme with the resources of the Rezief Protection Fund. The Hungarian families pay the cheapest energy prices in the European Union, even in the midst of the penalty energy price increases, thanks to the measures that have been maintained since 2013. The Trust Fund exceeds HUF 1360 billion in 2024 and is covered by extra-profit taxes and other revenue. We continue to expect those sectors that gain extra profit in this war situation to contribute to the protection of the country. According to the agreement with pensioners, the Government of Hungary preserves the value of pensions in wartimes, ensures a pension increase following inflation, and guarantees the payment of the 13th month pension, which has already been fully rebuilt and increased. The draft budget of 2024 also guarantees the protection of jobs. We continue to say that work is also the basis for the prosperity of Hungarian families and the development of the economy. Therefore, our priority in the difficult economic situation of failing sanctions in Brussels is also to maintain full employment and to protect one million new jobs that have been created since 2010. Since national governance, Hungary has made a turn, and we have set the economy on a growth path. This has been preserved despite the epidemic and the war situation. We expect economic growth of around 4 percent in 2024 as well. Since 2010, we have not only stabilised the country economically but also financially, balanced the budget and the government debt on a declining path. Dear House, As Vice-President of the Committee on National Security, I would like to talk more about the support of the secret services next year. It may not be necessary to specify how much the work of national security services is valued during a period of war threats and threats. It is vital that military and civilian intelligence can provide accurate, up-to-date information for decisions to be taken to protect our national sovereignty. The safety of the Hungarian people also depends on the work of the counters. Since February last year, tens of thousands of refugees have come to our country every week from Ukraine. In the last 16 months, more than two million people have fled our neighbour through Hungary. It is also necessary to prepare for some terrorist groups or anti-interested services to try to get their people into Hungary, even by using this flood of refugees. Therefore, strengthening national security services and making their activities more effective could not be delayed. At this time last year, at this time in this year's budget, you could see that the Russian-Ukrainian war would not be a short-term local conflict, but a long-lasting bloody fight, the negative effects of which would be felt by all Europeans. Therefore, this year's budget for national security services has been raised to an unprecedented extent. In 2023, the five secret services can manage from nearly 150 billion forints instead of 89 billion in 2022. This is a HUF 61 billion surplus, which meant a 60 percent increase. Professional staff can thus carry out their essential work with increased numbers, financial appreciation and new skills. These results will also be retained in the 2024 budget and will provide additional resources to the services. [[8.10]] According to the draft, the Constitutional Protection Office will be able to manage almost HUF 27 billion in 2024, which is more than twice the budget of last year, but it is also HUF 970 million more than this year. The National Security Service was able to manage from HUF 24 billion in 2022, and it will be worth 50 billion in 24 years; this is also more than a double increase, with an increase of 2 billion compared to this year. The support of the Information Office will increase by HUF 1.4 billion next year compared to this year, so civil intelligence can grow from 24.5 billion, a 50 percent increase compared to 2022. The Military National Security Service will be able to increase its personnel allowances by 37% next year compared to 2023, thus ensuring the retention and expansion of specialized personnel. The National Information Centre can manage more than HUF 7.5 billion next year according to the proposal, which is more than double the budget of 2022 and exceeds this year by HUF 467 million. Overall, support for civil services will continue to increase and priority funding for the entire national security sector will continue to be ensured next year. Dear House, In addition to the unprecedented increase in the resources of national security services, the governance structure for the oversight of civil services changed last year. We can remember that civil national security services were under the control of the Ministry of Home Affairs in 2010. This was necessary in 2010 because at that time the most important challenge was to restore public security, because we literally inherited criminal conditions after the Gyurcsány, Bajnai chambers, and this was very dramatically reflected in the crime indicators at that time. There was therefore a need not only for legislation but also for effective, effective and coordinated action. This is why we decided, in contrast to previous traditions, that in 2010, the supervision of civil national security services will also be coordinated with the Ministry of Home Affairs, and that an important part of their task will be to help combat law enforcement and crime. The civil security services, together with the police, have solved the task in the last period between 2010 and 2022, and Hungary is now one of the safest countries in Europe, and Budapest is perhaps the safest capital of Europe. The outbreak of war, however, has brought the country into a new situation. It is not only a threat to physical security, but also to financial security and energy security, so war is at the same time a threat to the physical security of the Hungarian people, to the country's energy security and to the financial security of the people. It follows that the whole government structure had to be set up in such a way that these aspects were the first to apply to the tasks of national security services. Therefore, with the exception of the Military National Security Service, which has its natural place under the control of the Ministry of Defence, the civilian services are under the control of the Prime Minister's Cabinet. As a successor to the Counter-Terrorism and Crime Analysis Centre, the National Information Centre has been established, whose functions are significantly higher than those of your predecessor TIBEK. Over the course of a year, I can tell this House that increased subsidies and restructuring have fulfilled their expectations. The NIK, the National Information Centre, sends detailed, fast, comprehensive analyses and briefings to the National Security Committee, among other things, this is true of current and long-standing issues, but they also fully serve the Committee's specific news needs. The National Information Centre has also been able to involve professionals who, in addition to national security expertise, have gained experience in the field of energy security, for example, in recent years. We have received professional oral reports and written analyses of the country's security and criminal situation, the security of the economy and our sovereignty. During the appointed meetings of the National Security Committee and during the visits to the services, we have also been personally convinced that both our intelligence and counterintelligence organisations are making good use of the increased budgetary resources. The professional staff of national security services consists of people who are loving, dedicated and expert in their country, who can be relied on by the Hungarian people. I'd like to thank you for your sacrifice. Dear House, In conclusion, I would like to point out once again that budget support for military and civilian services in 2024 creates a financial background for defending Hungary's national sovereignty despite increasing threats. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the draft budget. National security services can count on the support of the Fidesz faction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-06-15-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Fidesz fraction is right, the last year has been a year of danger, and we need protection against them; the year of dangers that inflation in Orbán represents for this country, and this protection means everything but protection against inflation. It's an oligarch defense budget that has nothing to do with inflation in Orbán. Dear House, We're about to have a budget meeting, oh, boy. A year ago, imagine, I presented the proposals for a budgetary amendment by the Fidesz municipal representatives of Elizabeth and Terézváros, which were submitted to the opposition authorities with loud table fights, so that there would be money for this immediately. And what happened here in the House? The budgetary amendments tabled by the Fidesz municipal representatives here in this House have been voted out on one-on-one without discussion. It also shows that the whole budget, the mechanism of Fidesz's operation, is nothing more than a charade; the problem is that the player is the country and the set is inflation in Orbán, which strikes all the players. Unfortunately, it is right to say that this budget, this document, which has once been of exceptional importance in Hungary, and its debate, has been transformed into a farce on the one hand and a tragedy on the other. Nevertheless, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to share with you some further thoughts on the budget and on my proposed amendments. On 7 June, the Municipality of Metropolitan City submitted its claim for the rate of solidarity contribution imposed on it this year to the Metropolitan Tribunal. The reason is clear: this year's solidarity contribution by Budapest amounts to HUF 58 billion, which is 25 billion higher than the state norms that the Metropolitan Municipality receives in order to carry out its mandatory tasks with regular math. The capital does not consider it lawful to pay more into the state register than it receives from it for mandatory tasks. But to what does the money paid by the municipalities usually go into the budget? Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation has received HUF 75.5 billion specifically in recent years, and at the time of the decision there were 38 students of this university. I'm telling you, 58 billion is paid by the City Council, the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation, with 38 students, for 75.5 billion. This means that the money paid by Budapest should be used to finance approximately 30 Tokaj-hegyalja students. Well, think about how much better this would be in Budapest, because there are a number of projects that you have stopped in the past. But the situation is nothing more rosy if we look at the situation of district authorities. In general, there is a difficult cycle behind the municipalities. It began with the pandemic, which was equivalent to beating the local governments, taking money away from them, the energy crisis, the horribly high inflation in Orbán, and culminating in the unpredictable decisions of the emergency government that has been maintained to this day. We never know what the government is proclaiming in the morning, what they invented up there at the Carmelite at night. However, the tasks of municipalities are increasing, the number of people in need is increasing, energy costs are increasing, the costs of institutions, offices and even the maintenance of kindergartens are increasing. The government has also released the hands of the population and the municipalities. The tributes now also affect retail savings. From the beginning of July, the government is also burdening the interest income of natural persons with a new tax, even though they claim to be the government of the tax reduction. The public can only see that we are talking about the government of tax growth. In addition to the general situation, let me give you some specifics about, for example, Elizabeth city. In 2023, the Municipality of Erzsébetváros will pay more than HUF 1.5 billion to the central budget at a solidarity tax. Well, it's not enough to support 1, or a piece of Tokaj-hegyalja student, fellow Members, which you are taking away from Elizabeth. [[8.20]] That's one and a half times last year. We know that the district government is a supportive, solidarity-based local government, but neither in the districts nor in the capital can anyone tell who or what the government is actually supporting with this tax that comes into the central budget. Perhaps it would be worth talking about what these funds are spent on if they are taken away. I am convinced that primarily development in the district, Budapest, could be supported by investments from the districts, with money taken from Budapest. For this reason, I have tabled a total of 39 budget proposals with the help of my fellow Members for Elizabeth and Terézváros, some of which I would like to highlight and ask for their vote in favour, because they serve the population of Terézváros and Erzsébetváros. And if you're interested in the views of the local Fidesz municipal representatives, then you should support this with a calm heart. Priority to public safety. The establishment of a police unit specialized in downtown entertainment district is of particular importance for both districts, but, of course, further development of surveillance cameras is also important as the creation of safe transport conditions in the coming period. The issue of condominiums is also decisive. In my proposal, the design and installation of heat pump heating and cooling systems for downtown apartments are included in the same way as noise insulation, the exchange of openings, or the thermal insulation of historic buildings, but this includes the need to develop, support the renovation of apartments and the social housing programme in both districts. Let us build social housing, my fellow Members, throughout the country rather than a student in Tokaj-hegyalja for 2 billion HUF. We cannot go without saying anything about institutional issues directly affecting the population. My budget proposals include the renovation of schools and the development of digital classrooms, the renovation of medical clinics or even the construction of a retirement home. Finally, let me mention a proposal not directly concerning the inhabitants of the district, which I presented with deep conviction, because I believe that it is one of the biggest challenges of the coming decade in addition to climate change. I have presented a budget proposal for the launch of the MTA artificial intelligence research centre to address the expansion of artificial intelligence. You know, it's about the MTA you decapitated, the property you're trying to take, the property you're trying to make impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, it is the experience that the amendments that have been tabled over the past period are always beaten down by you, practically without a substantive discussion. You are not representing the country, you are not building the country, you are continuing to build inflation in Orbán. Budapest, the districts and the country have only one hope, if the Prime Minister becomes Klára Dobrev as soon as possible, who understands the country's problem and not the inflation in Orbán, but the country. Thank you for listening. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-15-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The next speaker was Mr Imre Vejkey, representing KDNP. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-7	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4181 on Hungary's central budget for 2024 submitted by the Government Legislative bill No. 2024 is our country's defence budget. Ladies and Gentlemen, In times of war, we need a budget that guarantees the country's security, protects families, pensions, jobs and cuts in overhead. By means of the defence budget, we will strengthen the physical security of our country. All defence spending will be increased to 2% of GDP while maintaining Europe's largest family support system. The amount of funds allocated to this will exceed 4 per cent of GDP in 2024. We will also increase the resources needed to protect pensions next year. We will spend HUF 6500 billion for this purpose in 2024. Pensioners will also be able to expect a pension increase next year, a 13th month pension and, of course, a pension premium depending on economic performance. Despite the times of war, we will continue to improve the balance indicators in 2024 and we will continue to reduce budget deficits and reduce public debt through economic management. Ladies and Gentlemen, As Chairman of the Committee on Justice, the draft budget for 2024 will be set out in Annex VI. I would like to talk about chapters X and X, which concern, on the one hand, the courts and, on the other, the enforcement of the government's judicial policy, and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Justice itself. Let's look at the courts first. According to Article 25 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, justice is the basic task of the courts. The supreme court body is the Curia. According to Article 25 (2) of the Fundamental Law, the court decides in criminal matters, in private disputes, in other cases provided for by law, on the legality of administrative decisions, on conflicts and annulment of municipal regulations and other laws, and on the determination of the failure of the local government to comply with its legislative obligations based on law and in other matters laid down by law. The Curia shall ensure the unity of the application of the law of the courts, subject to the provisions of Article 25 (2) of the Fundamental Law, and shall take a binding decision on the courts. The National Judicial Council supervises the central administration of the courts, the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 65. The President of the National Court of Justice shall carry out the central functions of the administration of the courts by maintaining the constitutional principle of judicial independence, and the Chapter of the Courts of Justice of the Finance Act, i.e. Chapter VI. As regards Chapter 3, the chapter exercises its governing powers and supervises the administrative activities of the Judges, the Presidents of the Tribunal. Based on the management powers of the President of the OBH, the President of the OBH will draw up his proposal for the budget of the courts, which the Government will submit to Parliament without change as part of the draft law on the central budget. That is what has happened here, ladies and gentlemen. The proper performance of the constitutional tasks listed above, the timely and, at the same time, professional functioning of the courts, is essential for the rule of law. The continuous development of the judicial organisation system is of particular economic and social importance in terms of both human resources and infrastructure. Annex VI to the draft budget for 2024 Chapter III of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice contains the financial cover of the human resources necessary for the basic operation of the courts, both the material conditions necessary to ensure the effectiveness of the case-law work and the provision of judicial benefits. Then let's watch the Justice Department. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the implementation of the Government's judicial policy in 1710/2014. [[CHAPTER XII 5.]] conducts its activities in line with the objectives set out therein, as set out in the Government Decision. The Ministry of Justice on consumer protection policy 1353/2022. [[CHAPTER VII 21.]] implement the government's consumer policy as set out in the government decision. [[8.30]] In addition to the above, the Ministry of Justice set up in 2023 our joint case with the assistance of the Animal Protection Foundation aims to make animal protection and responsible livestock farming a common social issue for all Hungarian citizens. The Ministry of Justice shall determine the strategic directions of the Presidency's programme and the EU Presidency priorities, including the 18-month programme of the Spanish, Belgian and Hungarian Presidency trio, and shall assess and ensure human resources needs, organise and ensure the training of staff involved in preparation and operation, and plan and implement informal meetings and events related to the EU Presidency, in conjunction with the second half of 2024. Ladies and Gentlemen, In recent years, the Ministry of Justice has established a new basis for professional cooperation with all legal professions. The Ministry of Justice protects the rights of Hungarian families, Hungarian consumers both in Hungary and in Europe, in accordance with Article M of the Fundamental Law. It considers it particularly important to ensure the right to adequate physical, mental and moral development of children in general, but also in the area of consumer protection. Ladies and Gentlemen, The draft budget of 2024 is all for the Ministry of Justice. The 2024 budget, remember, once again, was made in wartime. While a few years ago it seemed unimaginable to have a war in Europe, it is now taking place in our immediate neighbourhood and we have to face its consequences. In the current situation, the possibility of a prolonged war must also be taken into account, and in this case, it is particularly important that we can protect all the results that we have achieved in recent years. Of course, full physical and economic security would be guaranteed for our country if there was a ceasefire and peace as soon as possible. The prolonged war, the unstable world economy environment, the negative effects of the failed Brussels sanctions policy are also challenging Hungary. However, we cannot let our achievements so far be lost, so in times of war we need a budget that guarantees the country's physical and economic security, protects Hungarian families, jobs, pensions, and continues to maintain the system of liability protection. The draft budget of 2024 set these objectives and intends to meet these objectives. In the budget of 2024 there will be more resources than I said, protection expenditure, so the Defence Fund will be strengthened, the family support system will be renewed, family tax incentives will remain, and the resources of the Rezief Protection Fund will also be provided. The Christian Democrats therefore support the bill on Hungary's central budget in 2024. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Peter Benő Banai applauds.]]
u2023-06-15-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Momentum Group is Mr Szabolcs Szabó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that everyone will agree with my first sentence, which I usually say in all these budgetary debates, that the Finance Act represents the social and economic policy of the current pro-government majority, the socio-economic philosophy on which they govern. This is the practical implementation of this. I'm sure we can agree on that. And that I have a statement after that, I think you understand or see that we fundamentally disagree with the philosophy of social and economic policy that you are leading this country, which is what you are trying to say in the debate. My colleagues will talk in general, in detail more about the background of this. I'd just like to point out a few things in hits, and then I'd rather talk about my constituency. The basic reason I'm saying is that we can't agree with this social and economic policy is because we just have to look around the country and see where we got in 2023. We are in record inflation in the European Union, newer and more debt figures are being imposed, a social policy support system has been developed that supports wealthy people at the expense of the poor, teachers' wages are kept low in public education, and in some areas of the university sphere, interestingly, they have brought the education system itself into a deep crisis. I would just like to make so many comments in parentheses that there is no point in discussing this budget now. Last year, they burned their hands with this, we discussed it in the same way in the summer, we voted in favour of this year's budget, but it had to be modified, it had to be completely rewritten before it came into force. This is true now, because how much inflation will be next year, and how much the euro/forint exchange rate will be, is now practically in the category of bird-boning, it cannot be said six months in advance, and you know it, so there is no point in discussing it now, but we have submitted it, we are discussing it now. As I said, I would basically be dealing with my constituency for a little while, because I think that in its present form, this is not the budget of about 100,000 people living in Csepel and Soroks. That is why I have tabled several amendments to this draft budget law and I ask you to support them. I'm warning you, these are not big amounts. The budget total is over HUF 40 000 billion on the expenditure side. What I'd like for Csepel, Soroksar, plus it's about 20 billion forints. If calculated, this is 0,05 percent of the total expenditure. Here I'd just like to refer to an old film, maybe you'll remember, if I remember correctly, it was directed by Frigyes Bán, I'm going up to the minister, Antal Páger was the main character. The story is, briefly, that they want to announce in the main character's village that there's a percentage of the activity, but Antal Páger is playing a stubborn peasant who can't be collected into the kolkhoz, and that's causing a small problem. You know the minister personally in the film, you go up to him and you try to get permission not to enter, and the minister tells him, laughing, "Oh, well, if a man doesn't enter, it's not a percentage, it's just a fraction, it's safe to announce that 100 percent is the act and don't enter the act. This is also the case, this HUF 20 billion is virtually not a substantial part of the total amount, so it is not a problem to accept it. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to one small thing because it is always said by the Secretary of State that we give impossible things on the source page. The thing is, and I'm not going into a lot of things like public media and stuff, and I'd like to draw everyone's attention to a very simple thing. There's the government communication that's being outsourced to Gyula Balásy's companies. This good man has taken out 44 billion forints of profits from his company since 2016. So he didn't get that much money to communicate with the government, so he took out that much tax profits. This is the size of the money that comes out of the budget only on the government communication side. [[8.40]] For example, I would think that it would be more important for the Csepelians and Soroksharians to start or make some investments than to keep seeing giant posters along the otherwise untraceable roads, because that money should be used for road development, for example. And then I'd like to discuss a few of my budget amendments in more detail. On the one hand, in the case of Csepel, it is very important to complete the spinal path. This is an abandoned project, and it has now been a continuation for more than ten years. It'd be really nice to get to the design at least. The capital has already tried to raise funds for this, it wanted to put in its own resources in part, and it wanted to achieve it from EU funds in part. They've almost gotten to the point that it's gonna be okay, only at the last minute, the government's upped the share, and they couldn't manage that. That is why I have tabled a budgetary amendment to ensure that next year at least the planning of the spinal route continues and that Annex II is implemented. To fix Ferenc Rákóczi road. I'd just like to say that if you don't believe how important this is, you should talk to a man who lives there who, say, Rákóczi lives next to Ferenc Rákóczi Road, whose house cracks and noise can't sleep, because the road is of such poor quality and the traffic is so high that it's unmanageable. The next important thing in my constituency, in Soroksár, is the dredging of status, a branch of the Ráckevei-Soroksári-Danube branch, surrounded by Molnar Island. It's very muddy. In civil cooperation, partly with own money, partly with municipal money, they try to sort it out in a way, but the final solution would be to get it out. I'd like your support on that, too. It would be necessary to prepare for the southern extension of the Csepel HÉV in Csepel, and a concept plan would be needed here at all. Csepel drowns in traffic. The only solution is to stop arriving by car from the southern part of the island from Csepel, but to land their cars on the border of Csepel and Szigetszentmiklós and to move to public transport. This plan does not even exist at the level of the concept plan, which is why it would be necessary to look at it more carefully. So far, this has been set aside because of a lack of costs or a lack of money to be examined in greater detail. The next important thing would be the construction of the railway passage and the development of the related infrastructure in Soroksár. In connection with the reconstruction of the Budapest-Kelebia railway line, the railway line itself will be built, under the railway line a concrete cabinet will be completed, but the complete construction of the railway passage and the related infrastructure is still lacking in resources. This would be a basic infrastructure element, because this line cuts Soroksár in half, and there are only a few places to cross only this railway line; and when trains are running right now because of the renovation, but when trains are running, they often have to stand in one place for 15-20 minutes and wait for it to be possible to go from one side to the other. In Csepel it would be very important to renovate Csepel Road, this is the second important way out to the south of the II. Next to Ferenc Rákóczi Road. That doesn't correspond in any way to the traffic that's going on. It doesn't have a proper foundation, it's always messy, and ever since you've relocated Metrans to Csepel, even a part of the 200,000 trucks a year has been driving there, making the Csepel road impossible. That should therefore be refurbished very quickly. The next important thing would be to set up a multifunctional community house in Soroksár-Újtelep. There are about 8,000 people there. Valuable community space, which can be used for all purposes, no. There are communal squares both in the Catholic Church and in the new Reformed Church, but, by definition, certain events cannot be taken to church and parish, so a wide-ranging community house is needed. Plus, there's a huge real estate development going on there, thousands of people moving there, and that's what needs to be solved. It should be added that, moreover, a government decision had already been taken to support the development of Soroksár, and this project was included, only this was included in the list of projects drawn up by the Ministry of János Lázár. My next amendment, in which I request your support, is the uploading of the tender fund for the energy modernisation of Csepel residential properties. Many apartments in Csepel were renovated, partly insulated and partly renovated for energy reasons due to lack of resources. This needs to be speeded up real quick. We are talking about 20,000 condominium real estates, most of which have not yet been fully renovated. This should go further in a structure that has worked more or less so, when there was still money; partly EU money, partly Hungarian money, partly the contribution of the residents and its own strength. The next project I would like your support for is the reconstruction of the small bridge on the island of Miller in Soroksa. I have just mentioned the dredging of appearance, and this bridge is linked to this, because if we don't rebuild the bridge, below which there is a concrete threshold, which will reconstruct the sludge, then that would be money thrown out of a window, so we also need to rebuild the small bridge. The next project I would like your support for is the start of the renovation of the Gubacsi Bridge. Anyone who goes there can see that there is a huge problem with the Gubacsi Bridge: it is now an amazing size of corrosion on the bridge, and it has very narrow capacity, twice a lane. I often have a bad feeling about crossing this bridge because I expect to see when I'm breaking down under the bus, so this should be resolved very quickly, and you know that, of course, because several decisions have been made, support decisions, and so on and so forth. Nothing ever happens. Ever since I've been a congressman, the answer to that is that we're about to begin. I only became a congressman in 2014, and now it's 2023. So the Gobach Bridge must be renovated in any way. My next budget amendment relates to the location of the Jahn Ferenc South Pest Hospital in Csepel. It used to be a private hospital. Unfortunately, the hospital itself and the majority of the activity there have now been discontinued for over 15 years, over 15 years, almost 20 years; they were not you. And the thing is, at the moment, this is a facility for the South-Pest Hospital, which would do very important tasks if there were a sufficient number of staff there, but unfortunately there is no one, and it would therefore be necessary to launch a program that could provide adequate allowances for those working here, so that it could become an attractive place to work and serve the Csepelians. The next project I request your support for is the establishment of a social nursing home in Csepel. Csepel is also an ageing social district, where low-income, low-retired people cannot pay themselves to market-based elderly homes, so it is necessary to build an additional nursing home facility that can accommodate the poor. But I also submitted a modification for the development of the Csepel Works road network, the asphaltation of certain sections of Maros and Szebeni utca, the reconstruction of the Corvin node. As I said, this amending package is not a large sum overall, because in some cases it is not a question of launching concrete projects, but of simply starting the design or concept plan and covering next year's investment. I am asking you to vote because if these are included, then the Csepelians and the Soroksarias will be able to say in hindsight that this is indeed their budget, because, as I said, unfortunately, at present this is not their budget. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-15-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to inform my fellow Members that the title of today's first item on the agenda, although in line with the scenario, has been misplaced. Correctly, the general debate and conclusion of the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2024 is what we are talking about. I will ask the notaries of the Parliament to record and verify the repairs accordingly. [[8.50]] The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Gábor Bányai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-11	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to start my contribution further to the debate on the draft budget law for 2024, because in light of that, perhaps everything will be clearer for all of us, both for pro-government and for opposition representatives. In the summer of 2019 we adopted the draft budget law for 2020 at this time, with the hope of both the debate and the year 2020 that we are facing a very, very rich year in economic growth, the growth of citizens and the growth of the country, so in 2019 we turned to 2020 this way. We were hoping to prepare another successful year of catching up with that bill. We were preparing for declining public debt, low government deficits, fast economic growth, low inflation and low interest rates, and we prepared the budget for a peaceful new year in the summer of 2019. Now we know that the last year of peace was 2019 in all respects; now perhaps everyone knows that this is true. Between January and March 2020, the world turned to the top with us, everything seemed different from then on. It's come at us, they've unleashed the Covid-19 epidemic, which has destroyed all our dreams, our goals. Every country that has been affected by infections, the waves, have had virtually the same problems over the years as Hungary. It's been months, maybe they'll remember. And I do not want to open this debate, although both the President of DK and my fellow Members agreed to Covid on Tuesday. They are fortunate to have agreed only at the debate level, but we all know that the anti-vaccination or the over- or under-estimation of Covid, which we have seen on numerous occasions by opposition representatives, has caused even fatal exhaustion and even death to many people. For two years we fled with half the world, going forward: where? Maybe into nothing? We will never forget that Covid's years have leaked 10 000 billion forints on our economy, budget, Hungarian families; it has caused a fatal blow to health and education. The end of the pandemic was already apparent in the 2021 debate, because until then we had really just fled ahead, and we didn't know that what we were doing would ever make sense at all, we just fled ahead, the end of the pandemic seemed closer, because both the vaccination rates and the quieting down of the virus epidemic made the country's situation seem easier. We were prepared to see the return of the economy in 2021, and then its extraordinary growth, give us hope that we will look ahead to richer years; so we prepared for the budget year 2022 in the summer of 2021. Although I couldn't take part in that debate, because at the time I was in intensive care, unfortunately. February 24, 2022, however, has become another turning point in our lives, which has also changed everything, changed everything; it has changed our future, and it may be fatally or finally, because today we see that the bloodshed that began somewhere in Ukraine's land has not only caused great bloodshed in the fronts of the war, but also in the economy and financial systems, and it still causes bloodshed to this day. This may be worth talking about, but we always forget, because that is how we came to our debate today. I also told the stories from 2019 to our day, to see the history; to see how good it was to live in peace, to argue with one another in growth, to give more to Csepel or Kiskunhalas, or to anyone else, to enjoy both their comfort and their lives. It was good to manage growth, to reevaluate all previous decisions; and we could see that there was meaning to positive and good decisions, and that few conflicts had to be undertaken to run the policy. We need to look at our debate from here and from this re-evaluation, and that is why it is worth looking at the future of 2024. Although you are right, Mr Szabolcs Szabó, that this law may be a pity to pass figuratively, honourable Secretary of State, because we really do not know what the future will bring. No one can tell you, because I'm guessing Secretary of State Banai isn't in his room, and his colleagues can't see what the future spirit is projecting out of him, but we know that anything can happen. inflation, HUF/euro exchange rate, economic growth rates, they are all multi-factors, and may even be negative factors that could completely upset the future of the fiscal law. But I am not only afraid of this, but I am afraid that you and we will understand that if we have to, we will touch on it, that if we have to, we will reduce the dangers, and we will not be afraid to put in place measures that will also serve the future of the country and save it, because this budget is prepared for this. We really do not know what will happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, but precisely because we know that there is a quota in the Ministry of Finance, where excellent professionals work and plan, I am sure that they have prepared this next year's budget law proposal based on the worst scenario they can imagine. Allow me, in a few words, if everyone has already mentioned what they would like to do with their constituency, or what they think about their own or their favourite region's future, we can say that in the draft budget law, the country and the local governments and businesses have not stopped their development opportunities, because they contain a thousand billion-dollar amount of resources, which is true that they are not yet here, but in this we have to work together on your part, because we are not being punished by the fact that we are not allowed to have European Union funds, but the whole country will suffer from it, because we need those resources... By the way, we send out most of the money, we pass most of the money, and they only return it to what the Commission and European leaders would like to see in the country's economic life and development, but still, we lack these money, although the opposition always thinks about stealing everything, but everything is being stolen, said; and it has a profound impact on Hungarian society, and it is the fact that European money is all being stolen by the Fidesz. I just want to say that there are over 400 thousand businesses, winners in recent years, who have also used EU funds for their development, and if they have stolen everything, then I don't know what there are many growing economies, plants, factories; or even farmers working on land and the governments of the country have made a lot of unprecedented improvements. I note here that, by the way, it is a fact and a fact that health care and education are always in need of development resources, always need to be helped or helped, but I can only indicate that, far away from Budapest, most of the settlements in my constituency have been renovated by all schools and institutions. Our kindergartens have been rebuilt, rebuilt, and new nurserys have been built; what has not happened before, even under the previous left-wing governments, has happened. We built hundreds of kilometers of roads where there has never been road construction in the last 30 years. Today, everyone who has not had access to new asphalt roads, of course, rightly asks us why his roads have not been built. We have the school system in the room, someone who comes from there, you may know, read or see, and most of the health institutions have actually been renovated, equipped with instruments, so we have invested a lot of money in it, not only from European Union sources, but mostly from domestic sources. So it has not happened what has been predicted for many years; the country is not a canaan flowing with milk and honey, of course, but it is not the worst place in the world, which we must always listen to from opposition speakers at home, and even in European states or overseas. We also know that in this budget we have the fact that settlements will continue to develop. Not to the same extent as in the last two or three or seven years, because it is a fact and true that when a person is tightened by a belt, he pulls it where he does not want to, but therefore, so that nothing stops, life does not stop, whether in villages or small towns, we will bring a lot of development, whether through roads or institutions, to our regions, to our settlements, because otherwise they cannot be maintained, the people who live there cannot be stopped, that they can still live here and they will be worth staying. [[9.00]] Next year, the important export plan for the M9 highway, which is so important for the Southern region, will become very important even beyond the border, with the connection between road 54 and 51, and then the Ministry of Construction will be able to conduct its conditional procurement procedure, and perhaps even in the second half of next year if, let's say, Parliamentary Secretary Banai allows us to develop, build a road that could link Dunántúr and the southern part of the county of Bács-Kiskun with Csongrád-Csanád and Vojvodina, because this is a very serious priority. During the process of planning the connections between road M9, route 54 51, which promises that in the year 25 and 26 you can start building it at some point. It's very important to send a message home, everyone's already done it, so let me do it as a closing thought. Many of our development plans have been or are being completed, unfortunately due to the slowing of planning only this year, but we can finally write out the development of the Kiskunhalasi Csipke Spa, which is an important investment for us as an elderly home in Csepel, without which the region's economy could not stand on another foot, namely tourism. His approval plans are now in the final phase, and in the second half of the year the conditional procurement procedure can be drawn up, and in the middle of 2024 and towards the end, construction can be launched, which is expected very much by the citizens of the region not only the Halasi but also the other 22 settlements. So this budget, in addition to being prepared in an emergency, the previous years were almost like an emergency era, and now the term may be a little out of place, so let's just say it was actually made in a war situation. Therefore, in view of the fact that no one can see either the war, the period of inflation, or any bad decisions from Brussels or from us or anyone else, what it is doing, and if, sooner or later, the truce and peace broke out, then this energy crisis, which, by the way, affected all of us in an extraordinary way... And it is very important for them to see that European and domestic reservoirs are filled with very expensive gas, and we did not consume them, because there was a good weather in winter, and we will still be drinking the juice this year, because even though this energy carrier is cheap on the world market today, we are unlikely to be able to store it where there is no room. So this budget, Mr Secretary of State, we have known your work for a long time, and it is a fact and it is true that it is a cause for debate abundantly, even we could be involved if we so much wanted it, but we do not want it, because the country is not preparing for a peaceful time here today. That is why we do not want to stir up the mood, but we are interested in getting through this extremely difficult budget period of 24 and the year of life of all the inhabitants and citizens of the country, both the budget and the country's chariot out of trouble together. In other words, I see consolidation in this budget, and I am preparing for the year 25 in my soul, when perhaps, if the minds of the warring parties come to the West and the East, then perhaps from the fog of war to the brilliance of peace, we will have a life opportunity once again, in which we can conduct debates that will be based, there will be a nursing home, there will be a spa, there will be a highway, there will be everything we want. In the meantime, the wonder of the world's wonder may bring about European Union funds, most of which we Hungarians are throwing together. Thank you for your attention and your work, and thank you, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-15-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Dezső, Commissioner, who is a believer. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that when discussing a budget, it is a very important issue of credibility or lack of credibility. If the government has credibility, then I think that it is a good negotiating basis, a useful debate can be held. In the event of a lack of credibility, the deaf dialogue takes place. I think the latter is now, unfortunately, the latter. You live in a different dimension, a virtual world, a seemingly existing world that you created for yourself. In this world, growth is 4 percent and inflation is 6 percent. However, the importance of lack of credibility or credibility could also be drawn to attention, and this is a very recent experience: my acquaintance in the banking sector indicated that he was shocked that, despite the additional 13 per cent special tax on savings and the high interest on sovereign debt, people did not buy this. I quote what he said, what people say, why he didn't. They say they're gonna steal it anyway, and they're looking for a different investment. He says, "It's written in the paper at night that it won't be returned from the next day, they need it instead of EU money, you'll never get it back, remember the manyup. This is why credibility is an important issue, and I think that this does not exist in your case. And if you look at this budget and listen to you, you can experience even more that the unity of words and actions cannot be understood in action. Let's look at the words. You say it's a defense budget. That's what almost every speaker here has been talking about. They protect families, jobs, pensions, public health, and everyone here is and will be very safe in this country. Obviously, this requires significant public decisions and resources. Well, let's look at the facts and look at the actions. State involvement has been drastically reduced since 2010. This means that it has decreased from 31 per cent of GDP to 23 per cent of GDP. In my opinion, it will be quite difficult to achieve this protection. At the same time, we find that governments directly support families and directly support businesses in the happier half of the European Union. It's not as much trouble as we have. The Hungarian reality is that the situation created by serious government errors is quite clear that they are trying to pass it on to the population and are trying to obtain resources from it. The other circle is entrepreneurs who are hit by various special taxes. It is interesting that your philosophy is which areas these special taxes are put into: where they perceive that there is a very high profit. I have looked at the areas where the greatest profit can be achieved in Hungary today. Two, I say the first two: one is mining and the other is road and rail construction. They don't have a special tax on any of them, even though they're working with over 40 percent profit. You know why, don't you? One has the Orbán family and the other has the Butcher family. This should be thought about, in fact, that, let's say, retail units should not be subject to a separate tax, but those where this profit is actually generated. At the same time, we also see that there is no source, no source, and that this defense, which you promise, could be created. Firstly, we would like to know what is going on with the thousands of billions that the Union has. This is your responsibility. We do not hear about it, we would like to see it arrive, and we would like to see that it can be used, but it is disturbing news that so far there has been talk of hundreds of billions of HUF National Bank shortage, and now today's news is that it can reach up to HUF 2000 billion. If that's the case, then, I think it's also a pretty serious hole, it doesn't add credibility to the government's actions. We've seen what you promise, who you want to protect. It's just a quick list: they want to protect people, they want to protect pensioners, they want to protect entrepreneurs and they want to protect families. I quickly looked into what is true about these layers, what is real. [[9.10]] Let's look at people in general, because that's the way you put it. Today, one third, more than 30 percent of the people living in Hungary, do not have any reserves; under no reserve, it is understood that they live from day to day. Do you think it's safe? Mr. Secretary, can you imagine the security there is where a penny is not in the register? I don't think that's safe. At the same time, think about this overtaxed layer, because the reason why these people here have to live with such a world champion's VAT is because they are the worst-paid people in the Union, perhaps the worst-paid, perhaps one country, Bulgaria, where people have paid worse; and there is no inflation anywhere as high as the one that hits this layer. Is this how they're gonna be protected? I don't think that's protection, that's absolute uncertainty. I think that living in Hungary today is unplanned for people, even if we have such a budget. The other important layer is the layer of pensioners. What we see is that this layer of you repeatedly tricked into getting worse and worse, because you've become the government's creditors. It's not properly accounted for, it's not fair to count pensions, and it's not fair to pay for a pension increase. What I see is that, for example, in the case of pensioners, it can be well defined that an average Hungarian person works for 38 years, during which he pays HUF 51 million as a contribution to the state register; then, unfortunately, because of the very effective health care, an average Hungarian can enjoy his pension for eight years, and during that time he will be paid HUF 21 million. He's paying 51 million and they're paying back 21 million, and 40 percent of men aren't even worth retirement. Well, we can't say that, I suppose, that this security here in Hungary or that's your safety. Here's the rent. In my opinion, the overhead issue that you consider to be very important, at least often spoken of, is completely opaque, and I have not met a man who could explain how it works. Intransparency isn't security, it's total uncertainty-- that's what you've created in your overhead case. And an important question: families. They have almost no five sentences in which there is no "family" in any way. It says in the budget that this system, please, will be renewed. Well, how, what or what, they don't write much about it. I have looked at some features regarding the support of families: neither the children, the children, nor the maternity allowance, nor the family allowance, nor the support of children in need has been growing for 14 years; this would help the lives of families. Since you've been in power, they've been unchanged, and in doing so, calculate the inflation rate. It is a very important issue for families to create homes or modernise and renovate existing homes. I looked at it: the amount to be spent on home creation is reduced by 50 percent, and there is not a penny to be renovated. Is this support for families? A few more figures: baby bond since 2008 and support for children twice a year have not changed since 2017 and always add how much inflation is, has not changed! Even according to the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, the amount spent on children's meals will not be enough to finance it. You are trying to put the costs of this on the municipalities, the completely bled out municipalities. And recent news or recent data, which is most outrageous, is that, because of your health policy, more than 100,000 children in Hungary today are unsatisfactioned from a health point of view. [[Gábor Bányai: That's not true!]] Is this family policy? That's how many kids don't have a home doctor. It's safe to say that if you don't have a home doctor, you're unsanitary from a medical point of view. [[Gábor Bányai: It's not like that!]] Then don't tell me you're a family-friendly government. I've been describing facts for a long time. You'd be family-friendly if you paid attention to them. So I sense that you are talking about protection, but nobody is safe in Hungary, least of all families, and this budget is not about people's budgets, it's not about their growth, it's about them; it's about you, the power and the survival of your servers. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-06-15-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradszki. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed budget law for the year 2024 before us sets out very strong objectives and priorities, which have been said several times, in particular for the reasons set out by the current external circumstances. It is very important that we look at the objectives of the budget in terms of the backbone of society, the elements, layers, economic organisations and natural persons that form the main component. The reason why we need to talk about the defence budget is that, unfortunately, civil governments are always faced with the challenge of facing great difficulties, serious risks, and are dealt with, solved, and eliminated. This has been the case since 2010, whenever we look at the timeline, there was always something that the civil Hungarian government had to face difficulties for external reasons. We started with the red sludge disaster, and then a flood occurred, and then a very serious pandemic, the Covid epidemic, crippled the country's economy and burdened its health care, in which we were able to cope, with targeted measures to save the lives of many people, and health care was able to save the lives of many people. Perhaps it was fate that today the second and third pro-government speakers successfully fought this battle: I fought with my fellow Member Gábor Bányai, almost at the same time, but fortunately now we can be here, and we can give our opinion on the draft budget for 2024. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So we were saying that, when we felt the effects of a coronal virus epidemic and then a coronal virus epidemic, we immediately, almost immediately, had a war in our neighbourhood, to which European Union decision-makers, Brusselsers, gave answers that resulted in war inflation, a misguided sanctions policy against which we must redefine ourselves in the establishment of the budget. [[9.20]] But this redefining continues to be a strong vote for stability, which means that the budget objectives of the last few years have remained unchanged, that we want to stabilise and protect the situation of families in particular, and that we want to provide security to older people, pensioners, the values of the reduction of debts, and that the necessary strengthening of defence is also the objective of the budget, and that the budget of the Hungarian state will be able to provide the necessary coverage for this. It is worth mentioning the need to protect the cost reduction. This is a special task in the war situation, but let us recall that since 2013, the left has been constantly attacking the reduction in household life in Hungary, which was at first unique in Europe, but then some elements were taken over and followed by other countries. But the situation is different now, as a result of war inflation and energy prices, the Hungarian state is facing a significant increase in expenditure in order to maintain and defend the reduction of the rent, and to this end it has created an important fund within the budget structure, and this is the Rezsivédelmi Fund, which will help families, state and local government bodies operate by some HUF 1,400 billion, and if this were not, if this fund had not worked in the past, in recent years, then many of the municipal institutions would not have been able to operate because of increased energy prices, for example, they would have closed in my constituency the Arena swimming pool in Ord, the swimming pool in Turkey, and hundreds or thousands of young people could not have played sports, and could not have used these institutions, which, of course, are important for everyone in terms of comfort and health. It is very important that this year's budget chapters, this year's expenditure planning, continue to have funding to support local government institutions. It should be noted that, in our hope and hope, but yes, this is just hope that we will not talk about expenditure growth in this regard, because, although we have the risks, the decline in energy prices has not put us in the face of the difficult situation that occurred at the time of the outbreak of the war; although let me make a very parentheses comment, we do not know what the next winter will be, we will be so lucky that winter will be as mild as it was, and thus the amount of consumption will not increase over the last few years, compared to the last year. I therefore consider it important to underline the expenditures of the Rezségvédelmi Fund, because this ensures the safety of families, and this also contributes to the fact that Hungarian people's livelihoods are not at risk in relation to the prices and energy prices that are escaping. This HUF 1400 billion also means that, in terms of compensation for energy prices below average consumption, if this premium were not available, each family would pay HUF 181 thousand more for the price of energy and for the price of other overhead services. The second key element of the budget is the so-called Defence Fund, which provides nothing but the adjustment to the current war situation, the strengthening of Hungarian defence positions, the development of the Hungarian Defence Fund and the necessary procurement of assets. The figures of this are also quite muscular: in 2024 the fund's budget will be around HUF 1310 billion, which overall means that Hungary will meet NATO's expectations that the amount of defence expenditure should reach or exceed 2% of GDP. In this regard, Hungary has progressed more than, let us say, to mention Germany in another more developed country, but this is also necessary, because we are a neighbouring country, we are neighbours of a country in war, and the international situation is unstable enough, and in order to have the strength and credibility of our pro-peace stand, which is opposed and misunderstood by many, it is essential to have a strong defence, and this strong defence is an important source of the Defence Fund. Personally, I welcome the fact that the Hungarian defence is such a priority in the budget, and the draft ensures adequate coverage. I have already been involved in a very important area of commitment to so-called energy policy issues, and we need to not only focus on reducing the costs, but also on the process of achieving the objectives set out in the energy strategy adopted by the second Orbán government after 2012, namely to ensure our independence and to strive for greater independence in the area of energy supply. It is very important to mention that this budget also shows that our directions have been stable through the adoption of a number of budgetary laws, so we have been aiming for it since 2012, regardless of the situation in Ukraine, the development of the Ukrainian war, so that Hungary is independent of its dependence on energy. [[Sic!]] , and the necessary steps have been achieved in each budget year. Now, given the lessons learned over the past year, our vulnerability to energy supply and the fact that we have not been able to get any real help from our allies in this regard, it is very important that the independence of our energy supply goes on and on. There has been a great deal of progress in this area. In the last narrow two-and-a-half years, some 4,000 megawatts of solar energy have been built in the country, and the budget must provide additional funds to encourage this. And in order to achieve this goal, the government is planning to implement the energy development programme, which has not been seen since the change of system. In the budget of 2024 there will be HUF 120 billion in energy modernisation compared to HUF 81 billion in 2023. And from this point of view, there is a great lack of legitimate EU support for Hungary, because it is not enough to build capacities, it is necessary to renovate, modernise and adapt the necessary networks, the costs of which could largely be covered from European Union sources, and thus Hungary would continue to be more independent from the point of view of energy supply. In the case of energy policy-related tasks, the budget for 2024 envisages HUF 155 190 million for the following tasks: on the one hand, it covers the part-tasks of building energy, energy efficiency, sustainable development; on the other hand, it also covers the allocation of the energy and climate modernisation system; and on the other hand, it also covers expenditure related to the compensation for the system security service for electricity generation. [[9.30]] So what the budget can do with its margin of manoeuvre in terms of improving and protecting the security of energy supply can be ensured by the budget. However, it must also be said that the budget also provides adequate cover for our duties in relation to the legacy of the past. Here I am thinking about the spending package for recultivating mining properties. In this respect, I can safely say that the regeneration of certain areas started between 2014-18. This is a long process, which is not interrupted, but is going on, and the draft budget of 2024 provides adequate coverage for this. This is about HUF 3474 million in the budget. This ensures the long-term environmental compensation of the uranium ore mine, the landscaping of the Karolina mine, which are jointly funded projects with the relevant mining contractors. So more than that amount is spent on these purposes. It is very important, on the basis of the nature conservation approach, that these areas, these landscapes, are eliminated or, even if they cannot be eliminated, should be environmentally friendly, philanthropic, suitable for tourism and recreational purposes, and their revitalization, their return relative to the more orderly conditions and transformation into a human face is an important factor, both on the basis of local and national criteria. I think that the current draft Hungarian budget is a great step forward in enforcing these protection aspects. To shed light on this, returning to the reduction of the rent: I mentioned that the opposite side, the left, had always attacked this, because this reduction in the rent was a huge result, that from 2014 we actually brought the number of Hungarian citizens affected by energy poverty to European level. So the number of citizens affected by energy poverty, Hungarian citizens and Hungarian consumers decreased significantly. This is a very important achievement. That's what keeps families safe. This gives us the opportunity to spend most of their existing earnings, not on energy consumption, but for other purposes. This stability also served against the previous period when the prices of energy products, water and electricity were doubled and tripled, while wages did not increase, so that the security of Hungarian families is also served by the reduction of the rent, and this is part of the family protection measures, and we do not talk much about it, but my vision and best belief is that this is a very important part of Hungarian family protection. And the other thing I would like to talk about in my comment is the chapter on municipal subsidies. What I can tell you about this is that progress is being made in almost all sub-headings, with a significant increase in all areas compared to the amounts set out in the budget law now in force in the previous year. If we place this process in a broader dimension, it should also be said that in recent difficult years, i.e. taking into account the Covid period and the war situation, the situation of this joyful news has not deteriorated for a large part of the Hungarian authorities, they have not been in a close-up situation compared to, say, the pre-2010 conditions; because the starting point is that in 2010 there was a significant amount of debt to the municipalities, which the state took over. This debt then amounted to HUF 1050 billion, and the government took over the repayment of this debt for all municipalities, regardless of their party standing. Compared to this, in today's difficult circumstances, local government revenues have increased, both in terms of business tax and in terms of my constituency, Érd, even building tax revenues have increased; and not because they have increased the tax rate, but thanks to family policy measures, many young people have built and built new homes for themselves, which constitute a tax base and a tax item for municipalities. So, despite the fact that the opposition mayors and the leadership are generally crying to be indebted, they can expect more revenue in their own revenue in 2024 and, as I just said, they will receive more revenue in the local government chapter, in a normative way, guaranteed by the budget. For example, the general operation of municipal authorities also increases by a significant amount in terms of the performance of its sectoral tasks. At the moment, if I look at the numbers here, it represents HUF 10 497 million per year, and that is a much higher amount than we could provide in 2022-23. Overall, I have to say that with the support to finance the normative tasks provided in the municipal chapter, the operation of the municipalities is also ensured. If you look at it, in the general operational management area, the budget for 2023 is HUF 317 247 million, now it is HUF 329 200 million, and the same applies to the provision of tasks to municipalities in the field of public education. So it can be said that local governments have a sound economic background and a sound financial position, together with the growth potentials that have so far been in place in economic growth. They must, of course, operate according to savings, expediency, and logic within the framework of the general national cooperation, and then there will be no harm. The government has always, at least so far, protected municipalities from indebtedness and will not come up with what was before 2010. By the way, it should be noted that my opposition fellow Members say in a loud voice how well the Medgyessy government has increased the wages of teachers in 2003 or 2002. The only thing they forgot was that this increase in wages was soon charged to the municipalities to pay the teachers' wages, but they did not provide additional budget, central budget support. That's when the local government's debt began. However, this set of debts was paid by the civil government, and, if you look at it that way, the Hungarian civilian government was able to support the education wage increase of the Medgyessy government after 2010. I would like to mention one more thing in relation to the municipalities. One of them: I am pleased to see that the Hungarian village programme continues at some level. [[9.40]] This less affects the 1st constituency of Pest county, although very important projects have been carried out in Pusztazamor and Sóskút, road constructions and the modernisation of public institutions, but the fate of the really big wall is the programme of Modern Cities. This is already a running programme; on the basis of previous contracts, which were concluded in July 2015, for example in relation to Érd, the tasks set out in them had to be carried out by the municipalities, thus ensuring the corresponding amounts of the programme "Modern Cities"; for example, in the case of Érd, the amount paid is over 60 billion and 53 billion of these 60 billion are central budgetary resources. Thus, it is not true that the government provided the vast majority of the programme of the Modern Cities with EU funds, because, as shown by the example of Érd, out of HUF 60 billion, HUF 53 billion was made available to the city by the central budget for several years. However, it doesn't matter what attitude they have taken to implement the programme of modern cities in the given settlements. In 2015, the city of Érd had a complex plan, it became part of the programme of modern cities, and the implementation started dynamically. However, in 2019, when the previous management was replaced, the new left-wing management stopped the projects, in fact the existing contracts were terminated between 2019 and 22 and public procurements were withdrawn, and only the investments that were carried out by direct government bodies, such as the NIF. As a result, a series of reschedules took place in terms of delivery dates, now 31 December 2024 is the last scheduled delivery deadline for several projects. I have to say that this means that, after the amount remained unchanged, but the situation of the construction industry changed, the sanctions policy also led to a two-year deficit, two years of nothing-making in the town of Érd, to an additional increase of about HUF 7-8 billion in prices. So the two years that were lost have caused many billions of forints of damage to the Érdians, and there was no other reason than to create the presumed political advantage of having the wife of the mayor of Érd placed in a winning position in the 2022 election. That didn't happen, but it cost the Érdians a lot of money. I believe that the government should also take account of such trends, in a specific way, of making more reckoning with the city under the law and under the contract, and of asking why it did not happen. Because it is intolerable that, despite the existence of a central budget, the funding of HUF 53 billion was not carried out, the investments to which the city had contracted were not made, and two years had fallen out of implementation. In short, I wanted to say this, which was not really short, but what I see is that we are talking about the budget for stability and protection in important objectives, and that funding is available to municipalities. In the energy field, which is of particular interest to me, we also need to make the leap that we need to make in terms of the independence of energy supply, including budget expenditure, the involvement of MVM, and investment in renewable energy production. So on the part of the KDNP, we can support this budget proposal. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-15-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Péter Balassa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I did not think that my speech should start this way, but I think that I would tell both the Fidesz and the Christian Democrat Members to try and get back to reality. If you look at today's news, you can see in white and black that the Hungarian population lives worse: it spends less and buys cheaper. Feel free to look at it, any news portal will bring it down, but I think you don't have to look at news portals, but everyone feels it on their own. Every budget, I think, is worth as much of it as it is being kept, whether it is a family budget, whether it is a government budget, a business or Parliament's. As my fellow Member said here at the moment earlier, budgets can be created, but if you look at up to 21 and 22 it was 60 and 80 times that the budget was amended and thousands of billions. So you can plan, you can speak very nicely, but let's see what's real. What is real, and how much you are in our everyday lives and in our lives, let me tell you about this, as Jacob said in the Seven of Weeks: we have received a letter and have been asked to read it, but if you do not ask me, I will read it to you, because it is quite amazing what appeared yesterday. We are talking about the school electronic diary, parents are encouraged to buy Hungarian sovereign debt in KRÉTA, and this is not a joke, this is a very serious thing that has happened. At the end of May, new sovereign debt rules were introduced, with which the government aims to shift savings towards Hungarian sovereign debt. For example, there is the fact that banks have to tell them how much they have failed who have not invested their money in sovereign debt. In less than two days the school year will be over, at which point the parents will not really be notified of grades in the KRÉTA, but there was a different message according to our readers, but it came not from the head of the classroom or from the school principal, but from the State Debt Management Center itself, the ÁKK. I'd like to read you what it is. Dear Parents, All graduations and school holidays are preceded by great preparation, as we want to give our children a sticky gift. The Hungarian sovereign debt can be an excellent solution for this, which is a well-interested, interest-free form of savings that can be bought from a small amount or from a forint. It is worth to increase the amount received in the gift, as well as the pocket money in the Hungarian sovereign debt, but we can buy it ourselves. Surprise your child or yourself with Hungarian sovereign debt! I respectfully ask: I do not know how many families in Hungary can afford to buy sovereign debt for their children at graduation. I wish so, but I think that most Hungarian families prefer to go to lunch, try to save a summer holiday or buy a bicycle or sports equipment for children. So it's quite amazing that you've already sent an e-mail to the parents in KRÉTA to encourage them by sending a message. I think it's pretty cynical, especially knowing that you're taxing people's savings 13 percent to ruin, right? Before I go to the budget, although Mr President rightly said that we should talk about the budget of 2024 and try to stay on the subject, I still think that there is one thing that everyone should know in front of you. There have been quite a number of speakers on the issue of inflation, and I would like to take some time with Martin the Great's statement, and I would also like to be literal in that, when Martin the Great raised the idea of raising the inflation target. How recent is that? He said that on Monday this week, it is worth looking through, looking over and thinking about. In a Monday's opinion, Martin Nagy suggested that the inflation target should be higher than the current 2-4 percent level. It believes that a higher inflation target could contribute to the reduction of real interest rates, which would make borrowing more accessible and thus stimulate investment, including the expansion of the economy. Márton Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, in his opinion published in the Hungarian Nemzet, raised a rethink of the inflation target, which was currently drawn by the Hungarian National Bank at 3 percent. It believes that inflation, although not the most important, is the most pressing issue today, as it can significantly hinder socio-economic competitiveness. He believes that inflation may not return to the previous level of 2-4 percent. [[9.50]] Based on historical experience and based on economic logic, it argues that inflation may be higher in the medium term than at the previous level, particularly as a result of shocks such as wars or natural disasters. Lower supply, regionalisation and uncertainty can also contribute to higher inflation. The structural factors presented by the Minister in the article, Mr Nagy, in his view, can make inflation sticky in time in the single-digit range. If it is a structural, inevitable change, then the question arises as to how long and at what cost it is worth fighting against, how much social and economic costs are paid for the unattainable goal. Many speeches on the issue of inflation, whether on behalf of Jobbik, the opposition or even on behalf of pro-government representatives in 2023, or even on the issue of the budget for the 24th year, were also on the question of inflation, where the rate of inflation in the following year was set at 6 per cent. I think that both a real and a credible budget should be set up by the Hungarian government; and if we look at the current inflation figures and how this was planned in previous years, then I think that what Martin Nagy said would be thoughtful, and it would be good for you to think about or even agree on what your minister thinks about inflation, the issue of inflation, because the Hungarian people feel and sense that everything has been incredibly expensive either on food or in shops, in any area of life, and they feel it very, very much through their skin, through their pockets. I have tabled nearly 30 amendments to the budget. My first and most important proposal was already addressed last week in a speech to Parliament, which represents a budget item of 307.5 billion, and that is the amount of the family allowance. I brought the amount of the family allowance with me, and I do not want to show you a table, because I know this cannot be done, but it is clear to you how much the family allowance has been paid since 2008. If someone goes after him and looks at the prices in the shops in 2008 and 2010, the price of a litre of milk, sugar, bread or even the diapers we use to raise children, I'll tell you that mothers can buy a third of the price today, as in 2008 or 2010. A third of milk, sugar, flour, diapers, anything. Since 2008, you have not increased the support of the family allowance by a single penny, and you claim that this is a huge cost. Yeah. 307.5 billion. But if we look at you thinking at 244 billion for a big project in Zugló, or you spend hundreds of billions on various expenses, government communications, then I think that raising the family allowance should be a minimum. Ladies and Gentlemen, It's been 15 years! It's been 15 years, and you haven't touched the family allowance. Nearly 1.7 million people are affected in Hungary today by 1.7 million people, and you believe that 1.7 million people will be solved themselves. We don't think so. The system has been in operation since 1912, and based on the same price in 2008, you, I think, do not deal with this issue, do not want to or actually do not care. But let's look at the chart. After one child, two parents receive HUF 12 200, one parent receives HUF 13 700. After two children, HUF 13 300 per child, HUF 14 800 per child for one parent. Forints 16,000 per child for three or more children, 17,000 forints per child for one parent. But, don't you always think of Austria as an example or Austria as a lab, then I recommend you look at the Austrian support system, how they support parents and how they support them. I will tell you that the Austrian Government has a grant of more than EUR 200, and that there is also a 13-14th monthly salary in Austria. Yes, my honourable fellow Member, there is a 13-14th month's salary called summer money and winter money, and they also provide family allowance support, and even Hungarian workers who do not have a permanent Austrian address, but who have a Hungarian address, receive family allowance from the Austrian State. So we believe that we should at least double the family allowance, because it is outrageous that you have not dealt with this amount in 15 years, and that the issue of family allowance is treated at demagogic level. I would like to say a few thoughts about my constituency, my narrower Patria, my country, Vas County. In the last year, I have had a lot of speeches about renovations and improvements in connection with Szombathely, Vas county, which I submitted to Parliament in a budget amendment, in my speech, in my written question or in any form. In 2010, I joined the municipality of Szombathely as a representative, and here I look at Mr Aradski, who was quite right when we discussed the self-hiki, the municipal debt transfers, and you mentioned this in your speech. I fully agree that the debt of the municipalities was taken over by the Hungarian government, but I ask what opposition it was before 2010 when it allowed such debts to arise either in the municipalities or in the municipal companies. However, he did not rightly say how good the Hungarian Government did, because he took this debt from the municipalities, and the Hungarian State provided cover for it. I have to tell you that the Hungarian people paid for this in the same way, it was only transferred from one pocket to another, and they paid for it in the form of taxes. So it is possible to have nice speeches and large speeches here, my honourable fellow Member, but do not forget that the same Hungarian people paid for, for example, the debt of 10-20 billion in various local governments. And you always refer back to before 2010, where you, say, were in opposition, and were opposition fidesz representatives or Christian democrats: at what level did you monitor the operation of the municipality to allow debts of 10-20 billion to be made? Why didn't you tell me about this? There, in Szombathely, there was the same silence. What were you doing until then? But then I will not talk about the fact that bonds-based Swiss franck-based emissions were also raised by local government companies, which, for example, Szombathely still moans with billions of forints. Then what did they do? It was the same silence. And while we refer to developments and municipal resources, yes, there are decades of delays, also to Szombathely's county-righted city; I have spoken on many occasions and asked many written questions about how the state intends to help Szombathely, our county-righted city. In my first speech, a year ago, I asked for more than HUF 20 billion to help build our roads, parking houses and sidewalks in the area. I don't want to point fingers at anyone. I respect the Fidesz representative, the Christian Democrat, anyone who is political in Hungary today; however strange it may be for you. But what I am going to achieve, or in every speech, I will say, is that whether I work in Vas County, Szombathely, where I live, where people can be done, then I will say that, yes, we need to ask for money for inland roads, parking lots and various improvements. I understand that you must reject this with an axe and say that, oh, if you ask for money from an opposition representative, we certainly will not give it to him. But I beg you, I must. I don't want Szombathely to be a losing city, I want to make sure that there's money for roads, renovations, and it's up to you to vote for that or not. I can't do it, I'm an opposition representative, but I'm going to tell you at every forum that you're smiling in vain, and you don't even think with a swing, which NER rider or even who you can give support to, but Szombathely, Vas County needs improvements. I don't want to be a demagogue, but I'm afraid it won't work. Now, when those road improvements and bypass roads were pulled down in our county, in connection with the trips that would also avoid the city of Szombathely, the ministry of Lazarus was right to ask the local residents: but they promised five or ten years ago, and nothing came of it. And what are we referring to now? War, different things. Well, I'll tell you, when they promised, there was no war. There was no war in 2018. But when the Fidesz congressman showed Lajos Kósa in Szombathely that he was going to prepare the bypass with big paper... It's 2023; well, it's probably about a hoof cut or the materials are on the design table. And here is the forum where an opposition representative in Parliament can say that we need the money to improve the roads and make people's livelihoods and their daily lives more comfortable. I have described this in detail with regard to the budget what I would like and what needs I would like to submit to Szombathely and Vas county. The next thing you know, it's the rental building program. The tenement building: Dániel Z. Kárpát MP has been asking for the promotion and promotion of a tenement building program at national or county or city level for more than a decade. I would like to ask for money for a 200-accommodation housing program in Szombathely, and I have submitted it to the budget. The following is: I asked for an amount for the construction of a funeral home and parking lot on the road to Jacob, which I would like the Hungarian government to support, because this building has been in pretty bad condition for decades because of the lack of maintenance, and we would like its surroundings to be improved by parking lots and we would like to bring it to a particularly nice state. [[10.00]] Next up is the renovation of the inland roads, sidewalks, which I told you about. Next up is the teacher's tree. Here's a thought I'd like to stop. Nearly a year ago, the initiative of the teacher's tree movement was in Szombathely. We had the pleasure of creating and planting the teacher's tree in front of the cathedral in Szombathely, a cedar from Lebanon, which wants to strengthen the nymphus of the teacher's tree. We have initiated the planting of trees in every county-righted town and in the districts of Budapest. The planting of the teachers' tree would be in the 23 districts of the capital and in cities with county rights. We believe that this would be particularly important at a time when, due to the status law, teachers, thousands of students are protesting and moving against it across the country. We want teachers and educators to be valued with their tree. The issue of health and health is very important, including support for the National Ambulance Service, and the question of an air rescue base. Everyone knows it's my heart. I have already written a letter to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, as Győr-Moson-Sopron and Vas counties are an uncovered area for air rescue that affects nearly 7-800,000 people. To date, the possibility of setting up an air rescue facility has not been realised. It can't be a question of money! If you look at the number of air rescues and rescue helicopters you've had to call for accidents in the past, you'll see how far you'll have to get to Szombathely, Sopron, Sárvár or Győr. It is a European Union requirement that the arrival within 15 minutes be completed. Unfortunately, this does not work at the moment, so I would like to ask the Hungarian Government to support as soon as possible the proposal to set up an air rescue facility in Western Hungary, because all life is important and we do not know who is in danger and what kind of problem a paramedic needs to solve. Thank you so much for letting me speak. I apologize if I may have put someone in a difficult position with my criticism, but it was desirable that we should be honest about the problems facing the budget of 2023-24. I would like to ask you to talk about the budget of reality, to come down to the field of reality, and to see what problems, what daily problems Hungarian people face. Once again, I would like to conclude my speech by saying that two thirds of Hungarians are living worse, and your Fidesz voters acknowledge this. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-06-15-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, I now give the floor to State Secretary Péter Benő Banai, and I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2023-06-15-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Balassa and earlier Member Dezső Believing highlighted the issue of credibility in the debate on the budget. I fully agree that economic policy must be credible and that the budget must be credible. At the same time, whether the economic policy is credible or not, I think that it is not primarily the opinion of individuals that determines it; it is not the decisive thing, if you like what is said here in the Honourable Parliament, that the market players who buy Hungarian sovereign debt, or the real economic investors who invest in Hungary again and again, believe in Hungarian economic policy, believe in fiscal policy. What I can tell you is that the market players who, I repeat, buy, say, sovereign debt as a money market investment believe in Hungarian economic policy. This year's government bond issuances, foreign exchange bond issuances, forint bond issuances are carried out with a significant overshoot. Hungary is now financing itself from the market; it is not from external actors, not from external institutional actors to whom a country needs to turn if market investors consider it to be uncredited. Another very important thing to mention is that there are institutions that classify the credit of a given country. There are countries recommended for investment and not recommended for investment. I report that for all significant credit rating agencies Hungary is in the category recommended for investment. That's what the money market part is about. I think we all have a lot of responsibility when we talk about credibility and lack of credibility. In my opinion, it is also a great responsibility for Mr Dezső, Commissioner, when he says that it is the opinion that people should not buy sovereign debt because they are stealing the money anyway. As far as real economic investors are concerned: since the beginning of 2020, the real economic investment in Hungary announced by foreign investors, the total value of large investment amounts to 14 percent of GDP. So all companies that choose to invest in Hungary see the economic policy ideas outlined by the government as credible, along with the fact that there are, of course, tasks, there are challenges. But again, I see that, overall, from both a financial market and a real economic point of view, investors have credibility for Hungarian economic policy. There's been a theft that public funds are being stolen. I hear that a lot in this debate. I respectfully ask all speakers not to speak in general, but to press charges if they see a specific case. This theft is now the most apologies for the EU's resources to steal EU funds. I have in my hand, to my knowledge, the latest Commission analysis, the so-called Single Market Scoreboard, which looked at the purity of public procurement. Why the cleanliness of public procurement? Because, based on the European Commission's data, the most common area of irregularity is public procurement. I think it is important to say here that we should be aware that, according to the document published by the European Commission, the first of the three categories of EU countries contains the best rated countries. There are five countries in this. The second is the average category where Hungary is together with, for example, Germany or Benelux states. And there is a third category where, according to the evaluation, the system of public procurement is not satisfactory. This includes Austria, Italy and Spain. Austria is now an example country. Again, I'm sure there are problems, because there are problems everywhere, but you'll have to call it a name. If a specific irregularity is seen somewhere, a complaint must be made and proceedings initiated in that particular case. I repeat, based on the European Commission's analysis in the field of public procurement, Hungary is in the middle category, ahead of many countries, nine countries, nine countries in the third category. Back to financing, as regards credibility and sovereign debt financing: Mr Péter Balassa considered it negative that residents would be informed of sovereign debt options through various channels, and, if I understand correctly, he also highlighted high inflation as a serious problem. I agree that inflation is high, and this is a serious problem, and I agree with that. But please, Congressman, see the measures that the government has taken to break inflation. And I would also ask you, Mr President, to see that inflation has not gone up alone in Hungary. The EU average inflation increased by more than 13 times by 2022 compared to 2020. The greatest increase is linked to the increase in energy prices after the war. In this international context, it is worth seeing the measures taken by the government to curb inflation. And, if you will, I perceive as a fight against inflation that the real value of the population's savings can be preserved if the residents purchase sovereign debt from their income. Mr President, today's retail sovereign debt provides, if you will, a return on inflation, if you will. However inflation develops, I repeat, Hungarian sovereign debt protects savings. I would like to stress that there is no tax on this, and the Hungarian Treasury can open an account free of charge. I think it's a good opportunity, and thank God, a lot of people are using it. In 2010, the proportion of retail financing was around 2 per cent of total government debt, today 20 per cent. Many small investors, with small savings, also choose the Hungarian sovereign debt. [[10.10]] Yes, this is good for the population because it protects its savings from inflation. I would add that that's why banks should also inform customers about savings opportunities. And I think that, in addition to expensive funding, it is also worth it to the State as a whole, since it provides interest rates to domestic operators, to the population, not abroad. This paid interest can then become consumption and investment later. This was a conscious strategy, in which, I repeat, we increased the proportion of public funding. Member Dezső, who is gullible, said that nobody is safe in Hungary. I say this because I believe that the savings of the population are safe, for example, by purchasing Hungarian sovereign debt, not only in terms of inflation, but also in terms of the stability of the Hungarian state. I repeat, this is what the specialised agencies, the credit rating agencies, see. So safety can be interpreted from many aspects. I think that the greatest security for Hungarian families means that people who want to work can work. And yes, next year's budget, if you will, means security in terms of existential security by protecting the 4.7 million employees. There was a lot of talk about pensions. We were talking about insurance. I would like to mention here that, if inflation is mentioned by many, it is important to see that more than HUF 2600 billion is used to protect the overhead this year. This is an extra expense that the central budget takes over from families, takes over from municipalities, takes over from economic operators. This amount, as Mr Aradski said, will be around HUF 1300 billion next year due to the expected lower level of prices, but still as part of the anti-inflationary measures, as part of the public debt protection, more than HUF 1300 billion could be paid for public security. And yes, this has to be found, and its source comes from sectors where there is extra revenue due to war, sanctions, higher energy prices; see the energy sector and see the banking sector, as higher energy prices, higher inflation also means higher income from bank deposits at the central bank. So with regard to the extra profit, where there is extra income, and sometimes not, I would argue again with Mr Dezső, Commissioner. Relatively recent data are that this year's first quarter's profits in the banking sector are HUF 229 billion in addition to the special taxes. So I think that we have managed to find those actors who have received extra income that we have been able to involve in the financing of public expenditure. I'm trying to be brief with family. Several people mentioned the family allowance; Congressman Balassa said that it should be doubled. However, in the family support system, I think that most people today see more than just family allowances, not primarily. The family allowance can amount to HUF 307.3 billion from the central budget, according to the draft budget for next year. Mr President, the Member did not mention the new elements of family policy that relate, for example, to tax incentives, there are a number of such measures. According to next year's draft, the combined amount of these family tax incentives is more than double the family allowance, HUF 685.8 billion. So, Congressman, please also note that family policy measures have widened considerably, I repeat: family tax incentives could amount to HUF 685.8 billion in 2024. Here is a philosophical difference between us: we think that we should primarily prefer those who work and have children. This is a philosophical distinction between aid and work. So all those who work can benefit from family tax relief. There are, of course, family policy measures that are not related to employment. Here again, I would like to mention Mr Dezső, who brought up the food for children. Whether someone has a job or not, if their child goes to kindergarten or nursery, they can have a child's meal. Let me tell you that, compared to 2010, this year, there are about four times the amount of children's food resources. If we are talking about social sensitivity, let me say that, following changes in the rules of 2015, about 70 percent of children who eat in kindergartens and nurserys eat for free. I do not start to list family policy measures, and next year's budget includes the broadest family policy measures in Europe. I believe that this also represents a significant part of existential protection. Finally, let me say very briefly about the municipalities, thanking Mr András Aradski for his factual statements. I would just like to add and deny the allegations that we have heard today. For example, Commissioner Dezső spoke of completely bled-out municipalities, but many spoke of the smearing of municipalities. Then let's look at the numbers, and I repeat, I will complement Congressman Aradski. The proposal for a budget law for next year contains some HUF 80 billion more central budget support for municipalities. As a result of next year's economic growth, local government sales of business tax could be higher by HUF 190 billion. It is true that part of this should be paid into the budget in the context of the so-called solidarity contribution. Let me deny Mr Lajos Oláh: the payment of Budapest and all the municipalities with solidarity contributions does not go into the central budget without a label, but is one of the sources of funding for the mandatory tasks of local authorities. Why does the solidarity contribution system work? Because if I compare Budapest and its districts or villages, there are more than seven times the difference in per capita business tax revenue. This is an outstanding number in the OECD context. While local authorities must carry out the same mandatory tasks, there is a radical difference in their revenues. For this reason, in the spirit of solidarity, it is appropriate for the more affluent, more materialised municipalities to contribute to the cost of less well-off municipalities. The solidarity contribution is about the fact that, from one year to the next, the revenue of local authorities from the business tax increases substantially, part of it is submitted to the other municipalities to carry out their tasks. I think that this is a fair system, a system defined by a formula, an objective system in which the city of Győr, the city of Székesfehérvár or the capital of Budapest must also contribute to bearing the costs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-20	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-15-21	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! During the debates of the previous days, we have heard many names from our opposition fellow Members on the proposal before us. The government has given the budget for 2024 the title "Protection budget" and I think that this is absolutely correct. We live in the age of threats from a security, security, energy, global economy point of view. We must defend ourselves against negative processes and negative impacts, and the budget must provide the right basis for this defence. I wish the focus was different, if only there were no war in our neighborhood, no economic and energy sanctions. These are difficult for Europe. [[10.20]] May there be no increase in migratory pressure at the borders of the continent. Unfortunately, the fact is that these phenomena are present at the same time and there is no indication that they will disappear in 2024. The Hungarian people, on the other hand, want to live at least as much or more safely as this year. This environment is the main focus of the budget for the year 2024. Thus, it is no coincidence that the regime, the family support system, the protection of jobs and the pension system, as well as the strengthening of public security and our defence capabilities, requires a great deal of resources, and the government's proposal does so. The civilian government does not increase taxes in a war environment and in difficult economic circumstances, not abolish the benefits of families or pensioners, as the left did before 2010, but rather, on the contrary, those areas which it seeks to protect. Next year, there will be a system of overhead support and the Rezief Protection Fund, 13th monthly pension next year, and in 2024 we will spend 3300 billion forints on family support to highlight only the most important items. What I would like to talk more about in my speech is the defence budget. I would like to start with a little reflection, because I think that the draft budget law of 2024 also clearly shows that we are in direct conflict with left-wing thinking in the area of defence of the country. Following our accession to NATO, a process has been launched in the field of Hungarian defence policy, the effects of which are still felt today. The left which exercises government power on the grounds that our Soviet weapons systems inherited from the time of socialism are not NATO-compatible, conducted an amazingly large scrapping program without any development program being started or even developed. We have talked about this many times, but it cannot be enough, because this harmful activity originated from a misconception, which practically pushed the Hungarian Defence Forces to the brink of inability, and created the foundations of our current military development program. The misconception was that our NATO accession allowed left-wingers to tell us to spend little on defence. The idea on the left was that if we get in trouble, if we get attacked, NATO troops will come and protect us. But it's just a piece of reality. NATO is indeed a defence alliance, which, where appropriate, actually takes action to protect each other, but its members basically expect each other to be able to defend themselves. Only Member States with strong defences alone can form a stronger alliance. This is why there is a 2-percent recommendation of GDP, which left-wing governments did not take seriously. The Gyurcsány government not only sent falsified data on Hungary's economic and budgetary situation to Brussels, but also misled NATO when even the payment of military pensions was counted as a defence budget. This attitude has been changed by civil governments. We have started a long military development programme and, together with this, we have gradually increased budgetary resources for defence. This year, it is planned to reach 2 percent of GDP and, according to the proposal before us, we will keep this ratio next year. In total, we spend more than HUF 1700 billion on defence and more than HUF 100 billion on defence industrial development and military industry innovations. With regard to defence expenditure, resources are increasing by far more than 20% compared to last year's level. Special emphasis will be placed on increasing staff expenditure. There is also more access to defence training, support for non-profit organisations linked to defence tasks, and support for the Defence Sports Alliance is also increasing. We still have the cover for our international military engagements. Overall, there may be only one defence budget line that is drastically reduced compared to 2023, and this is nothing more than a series of defence expenditure related to the management of mass immigration, which is no longer needed after the creation of border hunting centuries and the high-profile support of police budget lines. More than HUF 1300 billion in spending in the Defence Fund chapter is the largest chapter in the next year's defence budget. Compared to this year, more than HUF 450 billion will be spent on the fund for the continuation of the military development programme. As a result of the programme, the Hungarian Defence Forces will become a decisive force in the region in the medium term. The aim is to create a powerful high-tech army with modern tools that meet the challenges of a changing world, and we are on the right track for this. The modernizing assets of the Hungarian Defence Office are expected to grow spectacularly in 2024 as well. The first copy of Embraer KC-390 ramp-tactical transport machines, as well as the new generation L-39 training planes, will be arriving soon. We are looking forward to our mid-range turbo H225 M transport helicopters, and we are also working on the modernisation of Gripen fighters, as well as raising our air defense system to a higher level. In the future, the production of Lynx infantry combat vehicles will also start in Hungary, from which we will order more than 200 units. We already have soldiers in training who will handle these vehicles and their weapons systems. Peace requires strength, so there is no contradiction between our position on war and our military development programme. [[10.30]] If we were not to develop our own army, self-defense, but, say, to send weapons to Ukraine, as the left-wing representatives demand, then in addition to contributing to the further drag of the pointless war, we would even weaken ourselves. Because of the military disarmament conducted by the left, we can do nothing but arm ourselves, because without it we would be weak and defenseless in the neighbourhood of a war conflict. I stress that the government has submitted a defense budget to Parliament, not a budget for war. It's not in our interest, we don't want any more confrontations in our neighborhood. We don't want to be dragged into a conflict that has nothing to do with us. The budget covers the supply of refugees from Ukraine and the transfer of means and goods to save their lives, and the destruction is not covered. We only support peace, a peace that comes as soon as possible, and that is acceptable to Ukraine. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The proposal before us provides the right basis for Hungary to be a safe place in 2024 under current international conditions, as well as for dealing with internal difficulties. I ask you to support the budget bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dávid Dócs, on behalf of the Group of our country. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-23	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard many things here from previous speakers. I try not to be emotional in politics and to speak, as many have done, but merely to concentrate on the facts and reality, which is a reality of the formation of information that we have received, which is what we are trying to say here in our speeches. Mr State Secretary mentioned that economic policy and the budget must also be credible. I think it's both of them, but the problem is that it's a credible poverty certificate if we look at the lines a lot. Allow me to begin with a small detour, because as a starting Member, the second budget I can be here at the trial and debate of, but I have come from a very small settlement where I was mayor, and we know the rules of the budget, and as mayor, I have had the pleasure of seeing it. In our case, in the municipalities, it works that the balance of expenditure and revenue must be the same, so it is impossible to plan a minus budget for a municipality, because there is simply no possibility. What we know is that you're saying that there's no blood on the municipalities, and I can tell you that I could tell you seven years of your experience. I will not bore you with this, but I can tell you that even in a Covid-kamus period when the expenditure side of the municipalities increased, and the revenue has decreased because the Fidesz government has taken away taxes from the municipalities, and in defence it is expected that they will take part, although we have not received any funds for this, I have managed to bring out a zero budget by the end of the year, and in the closing account, I think that our local government was best placed, so that it was not the most favorable perhaps, let's say, the political wind that blew our little self-government, and so on, but I still think that we managed to bring it to zero, which means that when we say that a budget is good or not, if it is planned with a plus, it is a good category, I think it is a good category. If it is planned in the first place with a huge deficit, and if I start out from last year, this deficit will rise in the course of the year, even if, let us say, a significant percentage of the year, it is not a good budget, because it was known that there would be a bad budget at the time of its planning, even the deficit that had already been planned cannot be kept. From this point of view, and to define the budget a little bit... because usually for many of us who care about it, we can say that there are many things about Chinese, well, let's think about ordinary citizens. They don't really understand what's going on. The only way I could define the budget in a kitchen language is if it's the economic balance of the coming year. If we are talking about this balance sheet, then there is a lot to see and look at the 2024, we can see that this does not reflect what you, my pro-government fellow Members, are saying, it does not suggest a strong and not a stable economic policy, and it does not suggest a strong and stable state, but rather a mirror of the failed economic policy of the last 13 years that you have achieved during your governance. My fellow Member Fidesz mentioned in his speech that this is not a canaan with milk and honey. Well, I really don't, but it could be. It could be if, since the change of method to the change of regime, many political players had not done business with the better future, but had fulfilled it. For the time being, in the context of the regime change, it was promised that it would be better, and then we could live off the supervision of the great brother and live on a Western standard of living. Then it didn't come true, but it didn't matter, it was redesigned, because with EU accession, the average mortal could hope that the real Western standard of living would come now, and then we could live in the same way as, say, brother-in-law or Germany. I report that we are discussing and discussing the 2024 budget for 2024 next year, which means that we have joined this European Union for 20 years, and not only that which was promised, with which we have been promising, but we are marching back hard. Whose fault is that? This is why it is possible that the 34 years that have passed since the change of regime, in half and half, are due to the two major political blocs and their faulty policies and leadership, because Fidesz has governed 17 years, and the left has also steered the same amount. They practically always like such social enterprises, that's another issue, but the responsibility, I think, is on the shoulders of these two large political blocs. Let us stay for now, I think, with the current government, because we must stay with the government where the economy is raging, and Hungary goes forward, not back. It's just that we're heading towards the ravine and towards the ravine. The lack of our own national economy shows that inflation starts with not only two figures, but already with two figures, and this may be significantly more than basic foods or basic items of use, which means that the payments did not follow this, as a matter of fact and unfortunately, which is shown in the news reports, although not always, but in everyday life, yes, that most people are now lacking in Hungary, unfortunately, and they have to think very, very much about what kind of goods they take off of the shelves of the shops. I don't mean that it's Hungarian or foreign, because they find Hungarian products only barely and misplaced in the shops and I'm going to mention it, but I'm thinking that prices really need to be looked at. If we look at the budget being prepared by the national government, then the problem is that this national government seems to be basing its economic policy only on almost foreign multinationals, which is why we are currently in as much trouble as we could have avoided with a strong national economy. You've had 13 years. When, as a starting Member, I was able to listen to Mr Agriculture Minister say that we will now have to turn towards food self-sufficiency, we need to strengthen the development of the countryside, and then I was very sad, because these are the basics. I think we should have gone in that direction, too. [[10.40]] Only then did I ask why it took 12 years, nearly two-thirds national, Christian, conservative government, and why a war had to break out in our eastern neighbor. Why hasn't this been a foundation since 2010, why didn't our economic policy take a course that would have resulted in a completely different budget? Let us see exactly what this budget contains. We have talked about a lot of things, but it is important to say that, as long as public debt, budget deficits or support for multinational companies is growing in this budget, let us also look at what is falling. Public health activities, home and paediatric services, support for primary education and social assistance are also decreasing. Family support and family support benefits, and pensions, have not been raised enough to follow the rate of inflation. I think that this is a strong disease, which we are now seeing with this budget, because it shows us that we are the inhabitants of a country, its leaders and its decision-makers, unfortunately, we are not yet at government level, but we hope that this will also come, which lives on foreign transfers. It can be said that this is not an independent country, it is not an independent economic policy, and in the long term this model cannot be maintained. And I am not saying this, but we are currently calling it the modern-day Felvidék name of Slovakia's finance minister of Hungarian origin or Hungarian nationality. He outlined this disease in relation to Slovakia, but I think that we can draw from it, look at our own economy, which is based on automotive assembly plants and foreign battery factories, on how much it can be based in the future. I believe that this is, in fact, the colonial economic structure. Let us take a few examples, as I have said these days that if current investments from battery production are made, we will be the second largest exporters in the world, where this can be traced back. This is due to the fact that in this wild capitalist economic policy, Fidesz is practically no longer a second, but a world leader. Orbán talked about the fact that he wants to base the future of the Hungarian economy on the field of battery production in 2017 at the Samsung plant in Göd. I would like to draw a parallel for you, since 2017 is the date from which agriculture's role in GDP has been steadily decreasing, and this small assembly could be obtained from the House's Information Service, so you can see that the strategic direction was decided in 2017. In 2017, it was decided not to base our country's economic policy on what we are strong from, but rather simply to base it on foreign multinationals, which, of course, will not make us stronger, but only a dependency relationship. I think that an example could be set, because I see that, unfortunately, time is running out, and we are setting the example of Slovenia. As long as Slovenia is the green heart of Europe, Hungary will be the landfill of Europe if we continue to do so. Let's look at the Slovenian economy. GDP per capita is double the GDP per capita in Hungary. Let's look at their economic structure. It is not based on foreign multinational companies, it is not based primarily on industry, but on services, tourism and agriculture. That's the difference between the two countries. If anyone would like to see a standard of living that should fit all people, to do so they have to go to Slovenia, unfortunately, they will do so there, although I think that they will be able to look back on much less time in their history than we Hungarians, but somehow it seems as I have told you that we have not moved forward in the past decades, but rather backwards. Therefore, the Hungarian Movement cannot support this budget. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-06-15-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-15-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On the third day of the budgetary debate, it can be seen that my opposition fellow Members cry back the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period in almost chorus, the pre-2010 period when they talk about family policy. You're crying back to the times when the family support system didn't actually exist, so there was no system to talk about. The forms of family support and home creation that families with children could make use of were growing and, indeed, the only thing that families could achieve was the family allowance. If we compare these two systems, we can see that there was a family allowance of around HUF 12-13 thousand per child, and since 2010, the family support system that we have built has increased by 3.5 times compared to the 2010 level. When other European countries are mentioned as examples, I would like to say and inform my fellow Members that these European countries are all examples of the Hungarian family support system. They ask how, at what rate and at what new forms of introduction have been introduced here in Hungary, and they are trying to take over from Hungary already in the past and now. If we asked the Hungarian families today, it is unlikely that they would choose to return to the family support system before 2010; I am quite sure that everyone would vote for today's family support system. We did leave it, we didn't raise the family allowance significantly, but there are those forms of family support next to it. Then let's look at the rates: next to 12-13-16 thousand HUF each child will receive the family tax and contribution refund discount. For example, this is 40,000 forints a month for a family with two children. Let's see that the meals are very discounted and widely received for free by students and kindergarteners. Let's look at what happened to the textbook supply: we introduced it with an ascending system, and now every student and family receiving basic and secondary education receives the textbooks for free. And then I didn't tell you about the CHOK, I didn't tell you about the various home-building benefits or the baby shower loan. I would like to present to you these chapters of next year's budget, and these are numbers to which you can believe, because the numbers do not lie. Hungary protects families, children, women, the elderly and people with disabilities through special measures. These ideas, these words are part of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, and they faithfully reflect the position of the Fidesz-KDNP faction association on the fundamental protection of the family as a community of fate. That was our philosophy at first, and that was our policy, and our budget reflected it every year. The family, as a basic unit of society, is based on the mutual love, support and protection of the people in it, which the government has provided support on a number of points over the past 13 years for its fulfillment and implementation. We will continue to do so in the future, and it is obvious that we intend to continue to do so, that is to say, to focus on the protection of families. This is reflected in the draft budget for 2024 that we are discussing. Our past years have been shielded by the coronal virus epidemic, but the government has also introduced a number of measures to increase the standard of living for people. Let's just think about the reimbursement of family members and the personal income tax exemption for young people under the age of 25 and mothers under the age of 30. [[10.50]] Unfortunately, after reducing the epidemic situation, our presence has been shielded by the economic and energy crisis in our neighbourhood for more than a year and by the failed sanctions in Brussels. In this situation, we had to make a series of new decisions to protect the interests of Hungarian people. Yet today, even in the course of the budgetary debate, there are many criticisms from left-wing politicians who question the measures introduced by the national government, which greatly support the livelihood of family members, while you are supporting the sanctions policy that is driving Europe to the brink of bankruptcy blindly and with closed eyes. Support for Hungarian families is one of the government's priorities despite economic difficulties, so one of the priorities of the 2024 budget is the amount that can be used for family support. We provide more than HUF 3300 billion in 2024; according to the current draft budget of 2024 we spend more than 3.5 times than in 2010 and a total of HUF 2370 billion more to support Hungarian families next year. The tax and contribution allowance for families, together with the first married person's discount, exceeds HUF 370 billion in 2024. In addition, the government will spend HUF 185 billion to ensure that people under the age of 25 are free of abuse, and an additional HUF 9 billion will be paid to women who have children under 30 years of age. In the framework of the family tax and contribution discount, the Hungarian families will have a total of HUF 4000 billion from the introduction of the system, i.e. from 2011 until the end of the year. The amount of child food support will continue to increase, which is more than HUF 105 billion; this is HUF 75 billion more than in 2010. We have made textbook provision free, which has been fully completed since the school year 2020/2021. The government will spend 16 billion forints on this in 2024 as well. Protecting pensioners in a war situation is also our priority. Next year, the inflation-following pension increase will also be guaranteed, the 13th month pension that you promised will be fully rebuilt and increased in 2022; and if economic growth allows, pension premium may also be paid. The amount of budgetary resources available for pensions and pensions increases to HUF 6542 billion, which is the largest item of the budget. The family support system is under constant review. Depending on experience and the possibilities of the budget, we try to fine-tune each year so that it can continue to help all families. Our family support system is constantly updated, constantly renewed; we are looking for answers and provide answers to the challenges of the present. Our goal is for everyone to find in it measures to support their life. Our family support system is also recognised at international level, and our aim is to continue to lead in the future with regard to innovative solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, We regard the Hungarian families as the strongest bastions of our national prosperity, and therefore we continue to consider their support as a priority and strategic goal. Our national strategy relies on the Hungarian families, who can continue to rely on the government's support, they can count on the Fidesz-KDNP Group. The budget presented for 2024 sets out objectives and includes appropriations that ensure the protection of Hungarian families in both physical and economic terms in this situation and in the war environment affected by sanctions in Brussels. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-15-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-15-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think that man is the biggest loser of this budget, and that is the budget of injustice. I see that you have the budget volumes, the detailed figures; they are basically specimens of a neoliberal economic and social policy. I think that researchers of later ages will refer to these chapters and books in front of you as the wrong directions and dead ends of a long-forgotten era. I'm saying this because we have to assume what the situation is like right now. We are in a crisis; we are in a crisis right now, and we are not just living in the era and period of the energy crisis and the climate crisis, but we are in the middle of a war crisis due to the aggression in Putin, and the consequences of the wage crisis and the inflation crisis that is the result of the government's failed economic and budgetary policy, I think that everyone is feeling it. The key question is how the government is trying to deal with this crisis and how the various social and economic players are coping with the burden of this crisis and how they are trying to alleviate it. From this point of view, what we see from the LMP, and we say that this budget is unfair, because those who still bear very heavy burdens, are in serious trouble, face serious difficulties, face the effects of inflation, do not help those who, on the other hand, have wealth, wealth, high incomes, I am thinking primarily of large enterprises, multinationals, those who are being relieved of their burdens, and just that they are trying to help them with extra budget support. This creates an uneven, even more uneven, situation, and that is why I say that this budget is a budget for injustice. In summary, the poor will be even poorer next year; and the rich will be richer in 2023 and in 24th. If we look at it and now we go through it by policy area, we start with the social sector: the social sector has a key role to play in reducing social inequalities and reducing poverty, but it provides services and benefits that are much wider than that. It serves social cohesion and integration; it could be one of the most important policies of a strong, sustainable and developing society. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai referred to the government's spending much more on these benefits than in recent years and decades. Unfortunately, that's not true, KSH measures these expenses. Here we have to refer to social protection expenditure: this shows most comprehensively the social policy and social policy expenditure that the Hungarian state grants to people with disabilities, for example, in the event of old age, illness, disability, unemployment, provision for people with poverty, housing benefits, child welfare and child protection. We see that from this point of view we are about 16-17 percent of GDP, so we are turning 16-17 percent of Hungarian GDP into people, families and social communities. Well, this ratio was highest in 2009, then it exceeded 22 percent; right in the middle of the global economic crisis, when it spilled into Hungary, we spent 22 percent on these benefits. That was also very little anyway, and we were still far behind the EU average, and we were far behind the level that we needed to alleviate the Hungarian social problems, but we also stepped back from this level. [[11.00]] There may be a structural shift and shift within the sectors, but this may not necessarily serve social justice if we transfer funds to families with wealthier incomes and wealth at the expense of poorer families. So that's the main problem here is that there's a transfer to their account. At a time when the Hungarian government has not actually increased the family allowance since 2008, it is actually making a transfer, since the real value of the family allowance is constantly falling, and the values of other benefits may be increased or, where appropriate, at the level, but the main problem here is that the family allowance for everyone is not increasing. If we look at social expenditure and I have some examples of this, there is, for example, the normative of catering, which is only growing by 9%. There's the village manager's normative, which grows by nine percent, or the nursing standard, which is only ten percent. Well, the problem with these is that these are a lot and a lot of increases in inflation. So, although expenditures are nominally increasing here, but if the inflation of recent years, this year's inflation... well, if we look at 25 percent real inflation, then food inflation is 40 percent in the case of the normative of catering, but they want to compensate for this by only a 9 percent increase in municipalities, in the case of municipalities that provide such services. This means that these services will be even more difficult, and the provision of these services on the part of municipalities and municipalities will be even more impossible. It's a real decrease, it's a worse situation than this year. One of the most serious things is that, as long as there has been a wage increase or a wage increase in health care, until there is a wage increase for teachers, although it is said that there should be a wage increase, there is, in fact, a point to the EU, social workers are in the worst situation, since there is no wage increase, at least there is no substantial wage increase. They are, aren't they, trapped in the public servants' pay sign, which is also now frozen over a decade's horizon, and 98 percent of this pay table is covered by the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. I have to quote the KSH here, we are talking about average earnings; KSH says:. For the first time in a sector, gross earnings over HUF 1 million are the average of HUF 1 million in money and insurance. The worst part is social services, there are 303 thousand forints of gross monthly income. That's less than a third of it. This is worth comparing to the Hungarian average salary, which is HUF 500 000 gross, which is HUF 300 thousand in the social sector. So how is it that someone's work is worth 1 million forints, but the work of social workers in the Hungarian state is hardly worth 300 thousand forints? So from gross HUF 300,000, how can you make a living in Hungary today, and how can these people be expected to do their job fairly and to help families, children and needy people? How can a helper who is slowly in need of help help, because the Hungarian state does not provide him with decent earnings? Thus, one of the most serious problems in the social sector is that social workers are not valued, their salaries are not increased, and they are still unwilling to provide them with the 500 thousand forints that they had rightly received under Covid, but the workers in the social sector, who were also involved in the defence, have failed to provide them with it until today. In Hungary, there is also a care crisis as part of the social crisis. There are a lot of people who are not being taken care of, but they need this, and there are a lot of people who care for others, but they are not being paid to care for them, and I am talking about the care fee, for example, the care fee, the amount of which should be raised to the minimum wage level. Moreover, there was a time when even the Fidesz MEPs proposed that the amount of the care fee should reach the minimum wage. They seem to disagree with themselves earlier, because this budget does not include this increase either. I think that care, care work, is a very, very important social work that the Hungarian State should ensure by the amount of the minimum wage, at least the minimum wage. This would, of course, exceed the gross HUF 200,000 with the current care fee of HUF 40-60-80 thousand, which is about a third and a quarter of the minimum wage. When we talk about care, let's talk about children, child protection and child welfare. Here, the ruling parties are talking about coming up with a child protection proposal. I think that if we are talking about child protection and child welfare, we should definitely talk about benefits, subsidies, respect for workers who work in the child protection system, raising the norm of child protection institutions. At the same time, it was said earlier that this proposal for child protection will be conflicted, which will trigger debates. Well, I think that if they were thinking about raising resources, it would not trigger debates: everyone would agree that there is a need to increase these resources. This earlier statement and the current budget, however, proves that they are not thinking about raising resources, as the budget does not contain substantial increases in the areas of child protection and child welfare. I think that without increasing institutional standards, without a substantial increase in the wages of workers in the child protection sector, there is no way to talk about strengthening child protection, this is also a money issue, this will not go without money, and this budget also does not include any progress in this respect. If I wanted to stay in the social sector, I would definitely talk about energy poverty. They refer here to the reduction of overhead and reduced overhead costs, which continue to be achieved in such a reduced form. In addition to the various green aspects, there has been a very serious problem over the last decade because it has not reached the poorest people, it has not reached those living in energy poverty. They live in energy poverty because, for example, the various energy suppliers or utilities have not yet reached them, so they could not benefit from the reduction of the costs. We're talking about tens of thousands of families who can't heat their homes to the right temperature during the winter season, can't get enough energy to, say, cook and wash. But there are thousands of families in Hungary where even the issue of electricity has not been resolved, and civil society organisations help them to get electricity at least, because the Hungarian state will not get there in 2023 to ensure that at least electricity is introduced into the household for all families and citizens. I am talking about Paks, for example, and I have just highlighted the work of the Light Bringers Foundation. I do not see that this budget would improve the situation of those living in energy poverty, because it does not include the provision of access to these services, does not include insulation programmes and does not include, let's say, housing subsidies or housing aid types regulated by the social law, I am still thinking of raising or extending debt management services or at least bringing them back to the level of ten years ago. Here, too, we met a system that was constantly degraded. Let's move on. Let's talk about education. We will talk about this very much tomorrow in the framework of this extraordinary meeting. The most serious problem here is the absence of a wage increase. It may be pointed to the European Union, but I am afraid that when the Secretary of State sits here next year, he will point to the European Union when the pension increase is placed on the table, or when the question of the provision of this frozen family allowance is on the agenda. So, if teachers' wages are expected from the European Union, will the EU be expected to pay other public servants next year? Will pensions also be expected from the Union? Then will the Union send textbooks, or do they expect the Union to start the train and bus every morning? So this is a very, very dangerous dead end, which I think you've been manipulated into. The fact is that the wages of teachers should be guaranteed by the Hungarian budget. This has been the case for the past 150 years, this is the case everywhere, but in the Hungarian budget we cannot see the resources to raise the net HUF 200-300 thousand teachers' wages to the level that would be fair and honest on the part of the Hungarian state, where we should obviously talk about net levels of HUF 400-500-600 thousand. [[11.10]] I would particularly like to highlight the low pay of staff directly assisting education. I find it quite amazing that they too are stuck in the civil servants' pay table, in the part of it, which ensures the level of the guaranteed minimum wage. They wish to raise this by just a few percent, even though we are talking about ten thousand workers here, and education could not work without them. And when we talk about health care, we can see that health care is also in a crisis. We have looked at the news of the past few weeks: the ambulance is not coming out in time, there are several counties in Hungary where there are capacity problems, they cannot guarantee that urgent assistance will arrive within the norm, within 15 minutes, I am talking about categories P1 and P2. We see the news constantly: the case of the obstetrics of Mosonmagyaróvár hospital has also been unable to solve it for weeks or months, or there was the question of the Pediatric Surgery and Children's Traumatology in Central Hungary, where a single doctor tried to cope, practically 168 injured people had to be treated in 24 hours. Well, what if it's not a lack of capacity, if it's not a shortage of doctors, which is ultimately due to a lack of money, a lack of resources? ! In the area of health care, there is huge money in health, this is private health and not public health, as if they were consciously pursuing a policy of directing patients towards private health in this budget as well. This is why we have proposed the introduction of a maximum price in private health, and we have proposed that NEAK funding be allowed to be drawn and used at least in respect of diagnostic benefits in private health, since today we are also very poorly performing in Hungary in the ranks of European Union countries, if we consider, say, the timely detection of preventable diseases. They do not recognize these types of diseases in time, and diagnostics and early detection are particularly important here. All in all, I see it as a budget for a neoliberal economic policy that is being implemented, which neglects social policy areas, the social area, education and health. There is plenty of money, but it seems to me that this is being used to support the rich, the large enterprises, multinational companies, car manufacturers and battery companies. There are hundreds of billions of forints, there are thousands of billions of forints if we take the last few years, but what is man, what is society, there is no money for that. This is a budget for exploitation and neoliberalism, and we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-15-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-06-15-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to react briefly to some of the things that have been said. At the very beginning and at the very end of Mr Matthew Kanász-Nagy's speech, it was about the budget of injustice, namely because, as he said, the poor one will be poorer, and beside him he has declared the practice of neoliberal budgets and economic policies that the government is carrying on, or the budget that the honourable Parliament is negotiating. I think there's a huge contradiction between the two statements, so one of them isn't true. Why do I say that? If we look at neoliberal economic policy, it's about the state not interfering with market conditions at all. That means that if we were to pursue a neoliberal economic policy, we would not see a Redemption Fund in the next year's draft budget law. If we were to pursue neoliberal economic policy, there would be no government measures that fixed the price of many foods. Why do I say that? Rent and groceries. In families with poorer incomes, in low-income families, the congressman obviously knows that most of the consumer basket is made up of overhead and food. In Europe, gas prices are the lowest in Hungary and the second lowest in terms of electricity. So all families who have to pay their bills pay much less in Hungary today, thanks to this economic policy, than in other countries of Europe. There are price-stop measures you will not find elsewhere in Europe, Congressman. So from this point of view, I do not think that the neoliberal adjective can be attached to government measures. As regards social protection expenditure, he mentioned the 2009 GDP ratio. I thank you, Mr President, for telling me what types of expenditure are in this category, and here is the expenditure on unemployment. Yes, in 2009 there was a very significant expenditure on GDP for two reasons. Why? Once: there were many unemployed; secondly: well, GDP was not exactly the most favourable. Today, this expenditure part, the expenditure on unemployment within social expenditure, is much lower, thank God. Why? Because unemployment is much lower, and thank God, much higher GDP. There are areas of expenditure which are also mentioned by the Member, where we are expecting growth, such as pensions. I do not think that the pension will be financed from European Union funds, the operational programmes for 2021-2027 or the resources of the recovery fund will be used for specific purposes; this is included in the documents otherwise approved by the European Commission. The teacher's wage is indeed here, as the teacher's wage increase can be partly financed from EU funds, and I think that once the European Commission has approved this programme, the envelopes are set aside for Hungary, we will hopefully also be able to obtain these funds. Last thought: nursing, feeding children. I agree with Mr President that it would be good to translate more into all areas. The question is whether we can do this responsibly or not, and the question is whether or not the nominal amount or real value of benefits in these areas remains. And since you mentioned next year's figures, Congressman, you mentioned that there are 6-9 percent and 10 percent increases, and inflation is 6 percent planned for next year, so I say that next year's expenditure should be compared to the inflation planned for next year, as next year's inflation shows how prices will develop in 2024 compared to 2023. So the areas that Mr President has highlighted are precisely those areas, such as elderly care, children's meals, where expenditure increases both nominally and in real terms, in the otherwise difficult economic situation and in addition to the requirement for disciplined budget planning. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2023-06-15-31	[[???Köszönöm a szót, elnök úr. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание, Уважаеми господин Държавен секретар! Позволете ми да ви поздравя от името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и от моето име.???]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and myself. Allow me, as the spokesperson invited by the Committee on Hungarian Nationalities and as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets of the Committee on Hungarian Nationalities, to take the T/4181 on Hungary's central budget for 2024. I would like to express our committee's position with regard to bill No. I inform the Parliament that our committee is Article 32 of the Act on Parliament. T/4181 declared a nationality item under paragraph 2 of this Article. At its meeting held at 11 a.m. on 12 June 2023, the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2024 was put on the agenda and discussed. The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10/2014. OGY decided by 12 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against, to decide that the bill should be put to the full, i.e. 1-76. The Committee would like to hold a detailed debate on the subject. In my speech, I would like to talk about the key areas of the life and functioning of nationalities in Hungary, to which the subsidies of the 2023 and 2024 budget law remained unchanged, despite the war in the neighbouring country, the world and Hungary are going through a difficult period. [[11.20]] These areas are as follows. Support for national minority self-governments and ethnic media, support for national minority self-governments and their reserved institutions. However, before the T/4181 on Hungary's central budget for 2024 I would like to explain in detail our opinion and the position of our committee as regards bill No 30 of this year's LXXVII of 1993 on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. Law. The national minority self-government system, which is capable of representing the municipal, regional and national interests of the 13 ethnic communities in Hungary, was born in 1993 and is a unique tool and opportunity to create a framework for ethnic cultural autonomy. In a positive legal and dogmatic sense, it has a reliable foundation that ensures that the existence and functioning of national minority self-governments remain part of the Hungarian state and social arrangement. The key to preserving, representing and passing on cultural identity is the establishment of a well-functioning representation and educational and cultural institution system. The period has proved that a good decision was made when the Hungarian Parliament passed this law, which is 30 years old this year. History has also demonstrated that, in order to benefit from the wide-ranging rights granted by the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Law on the Rights of Nationalities, there is a constant need to formulate and enforce common self-government interests that go beyond the specific needs of individual communities in all cases concerning the status, role and potential of local authorities. As a result of the work of the parliamentary advocates, the national minority representative, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, in the first three years, the conditions for the basic functioning of our national governments and ethnic associations have been ensured by increasing the national minority support by about four times in the first three years, and in the last four years we have established the future of our children and grandchildren. On the extraordinary parliamentary day tomorrow, we will be discussing an amendment to another law tabled by our committee, which regulates elections involving nationalities, while at the same time protecting today's contiguous ethnic communities, its spirituality and achievements. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 126. According to § 2 (2) of the Act on the Central Budget, the State grants to the national authorities, to the extent determined by the Act, support for the performance of the national minority public tasks, the self-management of nationalities in education and culture, the activities of national cultural autonomy, projects and the development of the cultural autonomy of nationalities within and outside public finances. The law is 128. The national minority government may use support from the central budget within the meaning of Article 4 of the Treaty only for the purpose of carrying out its national minority public tasks. As indicated in the provision cited above, the fundamental law governing the rights of nationalities does not mention operating aid for national minority self-governments. In other words, on the basis of the interpretation of this place of legislation, the fulfilment of the national minority public tasks provides the basis for the support of national minority authorities, which is based on the provision of tasks. At the same time, the relevant annex to the Finance Act already lists the aid granted under the title national authorities and nationality media as operating aid by setting the deadline for its use at 31 December of the reference year. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Following the amendment of Act No. 1 January 2018, the national minority authorities took over the right of trustee of the building and building stock of the public education and cultural institutions maintained by them, and after the amendment of 1 September 2020, the national minority authorities also took over the ownership of the national minority public education institutions they maintained. In the institutions maintained by the national authorities, maintenance, investment, renovation or even operating claims and costs were previously made available to the State, appeared to the municipalities, appeared at Klebelsberg, who were former maintainers, owners and trustees. So these demands will no longer appear elsewhere. That is why we believe it is important to continue to review the operating costs of our institutions and further additional and compensatory support in the changed economic situation, while maintaining the budgetary support that has been achieved. For wage developments from 1 January 2023, the government granted the XXV of 2022 on Hungary's central budget for 2023 to non-state non-government public education institutions. In addition to the specific amounts of aid items included in the Annex to Law No., B, it has contributed by providing additional support, which we thank you very much for. The additional costs resulting from the increase in energy prices of public education institutions maintained by national authorities due to the energy risk situation 1563/2022. A total of HUF 405.64 million was granted to national governments in 2022, based on a government decision. It is to be welcomed by the nationalities that, like last year, 41/2023 on energy price compensation in 2023, emergency rules in relation to the procurement of electricity by the institutions. the scope of the government decree covers the national and local self-government and the institutions it maintains. These responsible steps prove that the Government of Hungary sees 13 nationalities as partners and takes steps to continue to operate on its values and institutional systems, which have been built and operated so far, in this challenging world. In support of national minority self-governments and the media, the increases in 2015, 2017 and 2019 were sufficient to address the most pressing issues normally. For this reason, we have always submitted our needs on the basis of careful preparation, specific analyses and comparisons by national government in the case of further increases in aid. In the 2019 Central Budget Act, there was a substantial increase in support for national minority self-governments. The budget needs of the 12 nationalities for 2021 mainly arose in a focus area, which was the operation of national minority self-governments and the support of institutions maintained by the media and national minority self-governments, which thus shifted to 2022. In 2022, with long negotiations and negotiations, we managed to achieve a further increase in national minority self-governments, which amounted to almost HUF 800 million for the 13 nationalities. [[11.30]] This was important to us because, with the change in public finance legislation in the national minority self-government, economic, financial and administrative costs increased steadily without increasing subsidies with the various legal requirements. Since then, there have been a series of legislative and economic changes which have objectively justified the increase in aid. However, I think it is important to mention that, thanks to the legislative changes that have taken place in the last two years, it has become necessary for employees employed at the office of national governments to raise their wages to a lesser extent and to provide institutional operating support to cover the contributions of wage increases and the costs necessary for the day-to-day maintenance. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities will prepare a proposal for the office of national governments in this regard and will do so taking into account the responsible management and operation. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, No one thought that, after the pandemic, for our national governments and institutions, there would be an even more difficult period, a war in our neighbourhood. We immediately saw that if we didn't react and rethink our budget expenditure, then our achievements so far could be lost. As the country had to react, we have seen that this is something that we need to respond to in our budget. Although everyone feels the increased expenditure on their skin, in order to preserve and maintain our institutions and our intellectual and cultural values, responsible budgetary management is required. The national values that have been created so far are worthless if we cannot continue to operate them. We are still counting on government support in both operational and investment areas. In Hungary, in achieving the goal of the 13 nationalities, and since he has been a representative of the Parliament, we have always worked together and strived for a common opinion. I think it is important to mention that from 2014 onwards, since the nationalities have been represented in the Hungarian Parliament, thanks to the Government of Hungary, ethnic budget subsidies have increased sixfold, for which we owe thanks. For this reason, we would like to ask you to pursue it in the establishment of the budget for 2024 and to provide the necessary budgetary support for the operational, ongoing investment expenditure on the maintenance of nationalities. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Finally, allow me to thank both the government and Parliament for providing exemplary support to preserve the national identity of national minorities in Hungary, which has been manifested both in the continuous increase in budget support and through the multi-level support of national education and culture in recent years. Ensuring the necessary resources for the balanced, stable functioning of national authorities and their institutions contributes to the preservation of nationalities in Hungary. In addition to the specific figures, the results achieved and the support increases must be managed and evaluated in place by a full review of the situation of nationalities in Hungary. On the one hand, who looks at the very positive changes in nationality in recent years, merely at numbers and percentages, and only knows them, you see, it is right to say that the nationalities living in Hungary have received a significant increase in support compared to the general increase in the budget in recent years, and in this respect they are undoubtedly right. On the other hand, who sees it comprehensively, knows in historical depth the situation of indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, the whole process, the content behind the numbers, how deep we started, the extent to which we have the responsibilities of maintaining our mother tongue, identity, traditions, transferring to and from our children, or more today, the extent to which we are in the last hour, the gross assimilation that has been going on for six or seven decades, he also knows that the last seven years have only been enough to hold on, to get faith again, and to start with a new impetus on that path, to launch long-term programmes that we hope will ensure the survival of indigenous nationalities living in Hungary and the survival of our nationality. Of course, we are aware that the war next door and the resulting economic recession affect all the subsystems of economic life and has a major impact on budgetary room for manoeuvre. Nationalities in Hungary feel it is necessary to express their solidarity in the difficult economic situation and try to save money in all areas so that they can remain operational despite the lower level of fiscal support. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his assistance, cooperation and cooperation with regard to national resources. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-32	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nitrai, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-33	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. In my two-minute comment, I would like to respond to the statement of the Left representative concerning pensioners. It must be stated that Hungary's draft budget for 2024 is being prepared in a very difficult environment, because there has been war in our neighbourhood for over a year, this war has brought sanctions, these sanctions have not done anyone any good. In such a situation, there is a need for a defence budget, a budget that protects families, jobs, pensioners, and guarantees public security. Let's take a look at the pensioners. There's a lot of contrast, I think, between the left and the right, the Fidesz-KDNP. If we go back to 2010, there, at the time of the left, was an average pension of 97 thousand forints, while in May 2023 this meant more than 200 thousand forints. [[László Varju: How much was it in 1933? How many pengoes? What?!]] The Fidesz-KDNP government paid a pension premium five times, honourable Member, while in your time it did not happen at any time, so it never happened, even though the rules were the same at the time. This draft budget guarantees that pensioners will be able to receive the increased 13th month pension, that pension, honourable Member, that you took from pensioners. [[László Varju: We didn't take anything! We gave it seven times and you gave it once!]] Hungary's budget for 2024...
u2023-06-15-34	[[To László Varju:]] Congressman, when you press a button, you can tell me shortly. [[László Varju: Sorry!]] Sorry, I'll count the time. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Hungary's draft budget for the following year stands for the interests of pensioners and protects pensioners' benefits. We also have general measures that protect the elderly, such as shop-based mandatory actions and public utility protection. We can say that the Government of Hungary and Fidesz-KDNP and this draft budget are also on the side of pensioners. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For two minutes, I give the floor to Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, by the way, the Secretary of State is right, Milton Friedman or Friedrich Hayek would have really ruffled his eyebrows if he had seen this budget. As classic neoliberal thinkers, they imagined that everyone really had to be pushed out into the market and that everyone in the market should get along as well as the hairdresser, the butcher and the multinational company. You really are not doing this, so you are not following this classic neoliberal school, because while, let's say, the hairdresser or the butcher can't expect any support, or last year, they even led to catatax for the small ones, but the large and multinational companies can count on virtually infinite support, because they have created tax havens for them, Hungary has a record low corporate tax rate. It is worth calculating, well, here the Hungarian budget falls from hundreds of thousands of billions of forints compared to the fact that if this corporate tax was raised, let's say, to an average level in the European Union. But not only did they create tax havens for car factories or battery factories, but they also help them with direct or even indirect budget support and infrastructure investments on the other side, so they build gas plants for them to power them, build roads for them, or train them, serve all their needs; until then, the SME sector, private companies and small businesses get nothing. [[11.40]] So there is a huge inequality here, and this is not only a distinction between business and business, it is a distinction between large and small, but it is the hundreds and thousands of billions of forints missing from the public sector's wage increase. That is why there is no wage increase for teachers, and that is why you are pointing to Brussels and the European Union. So we must see this inequality and injustice. It's really not a classic neoliberal policy, it's a Fidesz rethink of it. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-15-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-39	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the word and for your patience, but now is really the time to ask the pro-government fellow Members to stop bullshit. Don't refer to 20 years ago, while what's here is a huge problem. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, as he knows precisely that the government's surplus has run out like the National Bank of Hungary. We have been discussing the budget here for three days, and after Minister Varga's meaningless exposé, in which he said with a semi-spoken statement that the losses and replacements of the Hungarian National Bank will be reported to us at some point. We're talking 2,000 billion forints, Secretary of State. You know that since December last year, because the law has been amended in order to resolve this in some way, and now, when the debate of this law is slowly over, you have not spoken a single sentence about this until now. It's time for the confession! It's time for the restrictions to continue. In addition to charging taxes, what, along with the introduction of more taxes, are they going to solve this? At the moment, they spent 2,000 billion forints more than you could have. So you're free to talk about inflation being the biggest opponent, by the way, we agree on that, but we should finally do something about it. Because I now think that everyone can understand from the budget that when György Matolcsy described Hungary as the most difficult country in the financial situation, he was right about that. It's just now time to account for 2,000 billion forints. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-15-40	Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, many of my fellow Members did not come forward, so we will continue with the speeches. I give the floor to Congressman György Czerván, Fidesz Group.
u2023-06-15-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The prolonged war, the unstable world economy environment, the negative effects of the failed Brussels sanctions policy are also challenging Hungary. However, we will not let our achievements so far be lost, so we need a budget that guarantees the country's physical and economic security, protects Hungarian families, jobs, pensions, and continues to maintain the system of protection. In the budget of 2024 there is more funding for defence expenditure, so the Defence Fund is strengthened, the family support system is renewed, family tax incentives are maintained and the resources of the Rezségvédelmi Fund are also secured. According to Hungary's agreement with pensioners, the Government of Hungary retains the value of pensions in wartimes, ensures a pension increase following inflation, and guarantees the payment of the 13th month pension, which has already been fully rebuilt and increased. Dear Parliament, In my speech, I would like to talk about agricultural and rural development and support for agriculture and rural development. The impact of climate change on agriculture and the growing environmental conditions in the EU, the lack of equal competition for agricultural products produced outside the European Union without standard and safety standards, the economic after-effects of the corona virus epidemic and, of course, the Russian-Ukrainian war affect our agriculture at the same time and all farmers and producers' lives at the same time. Support for Hungarian farmers, however...
u2023-06-15-42	Congressman, please understand. Secretary of State left the room for a minute. I ask that your speech be suspended until then. Thank you for your understanding. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you for your understanding, Congressman. Please continue.
u2023-06-15-43	Thank you very much. What is important is that Hungarian farmers' subsidies were also granted in 2024 in Hungary's budget. The chapter of the Agricultural Ministry is HUF 208.8 bn, EU developments HUF 656.5 bn, the National Fund Chapter 16.1 bn and the items appearing in the annex to the budget are HUF 628 bn. These amount to HUF 1509.4 billion in total. Out of this, the planned payment for direct aids is 609 billion, rural development and fisheries subsidies are 657 billion, market subsidies are 32 billion, national subsidies are 93.5 billion, and the excise duty refund for gas oil used in agriculture has been set at HUF 34 billion and HUF 1425 billion in total in next year's budget. In short, direct subsidies. In its decision of 7 November 2022, the European Commission formally approved Hungary's joint agricultural policy strategy. In addition to basic income support to promote sustainability, direct support to the CAP pillar 1, agroecological programme, youth support, coupled support and redistributive support items will be launched annually. For these items, the budget proposal is calculated by applying an advance or sub-payment for the year. Rural development and fisheries programmes. For payments related to rural development grants, the government has planned a budget of HUF 650 billion. In particular, thanks to the national budget contribution increased to 80% in the European Union, the source is intended to finance payments for the projects of farmers and businesses winning new calls for proposals under the rural development programme in 2021-22 with a funding envelope of HUF 1500 billion. The funds will be financed, inter alia, by agricultural and food investments, agri-environmental management and ecological management programmes. [[11.50]] The fishing programmes were set at HUF 6.5 billion. Market subsidies. During the period 2023-27, the CAP strategic plan also includes sectoral support programmes for the vegetables, fruit, wine and bee-keeping sectors that have so far worked as separate programmes. Within the framework of market support, support for the wine sector and programmes that have been highly popular for many years are being financed: bee-keeping, school milk, school fruit scheme, support for producer organisations and support for the prevention and eradication of certain animal diseases under the national programme. National grants. In the budget proposal for 2024 national agricultural subsidies were set at HUF 68.9 billion for the chapter-based appropriation, which includes, in addition to previous national agricultural subsidies, support for livestock production. The aim is to maintain existing aid schemes and to operate them as efficiently as possible. Under this item, special attention will continue to be paid to the poultry and pig sector and animal welfare aid not benefiting from direct EU funds. In order to relieve the national budget, the Ministry has already implemented a number of measures in the last year that allow more efficient use of available resources. Such is the involvement of rural development programme resources in financing, for example, animal welfare support for poultry. In the national agricultural compensation appropriation, the producer contribution, which is added to an additional budget of HUF 6.4 billion, is HUF 6.4 billion, in addition to which additional HUF 2 billion has been secured in order to avoid burdening the cost of operating the ice mitigation system. Thus, the appropriation was allocated HUF 14.8 billion for the year 2024. The agricultural compensation scheme with nearly 75,000 members has been successful in mitigating the damage caused by the extreme weather in recent years. The ice reduction system, consisting of a total of 986 soil generators, which provides national coverage, protects the production value of some HUF 50 billion in Hungarian agriculture using about 5 million hectares of agricultural land. The draft budget includes HUF 9.8 billion to finance the cost of official measures for the prevention, detection and eradication of epizootic diseases and plant quarantine pests, as well as the payment of compensation for damage to farmers for plant products destroyed for the purpose of protection. Finally, a few words about genetic conservation. Finding, collecting, preserving, maintaining and using our genetic resources is also an important strategic issue in terms of national security, food and food safety and nature conservation. The Institute of Tapios Szeles of the National Biodiversity and Genealogy Centre in my constituency is considered to be one of the world's largest gene banks of invaluable national strategic importance. About 135,000 genetic bank samples stored here and the properties they retain are the key to the development of resistance to increasing drought and various diseases. The preservation of our plant genetic resources is a priority of the state, for which an ever-expanding adequate infrastructure and the necessary resources are essential. To this end, the draft budget for 2024 envisages a surplus of HUF 500 million for the construction of the new gene banking building at the National Biodiversity and Gene Conservation Centre, the Hungarian peak institute for genetic conservation. Finally, a sentence on the programme of the Hungarian village related to rural development. I personally also like this call, but it is not about what I think about it, but it is about the fact that the municipalities concerned are also very fond of this relatively fast and simple form of support. In my constituency, Tápiómenten, and in the southern Galgamenten 21 settlements, 15 are affected by this programme, and we have been able to make a number of institutional and infrastructural investments. I fully support the continuation of this programme. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I ask you to support the budget proposal before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-15-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi, DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz has been deceiving people in the countryside for years. You deceive them because you make promises you never keep. He deceives them, because for all troubles, inflation, price increases we can blame someone else: Brussels, Soros, Gyurcsány, war, while the problem is in their own government policies. Unfortunately, inflation in Orbán does not escape the countryside, life is becoming more expensive, and the rise in wages does not follow the rise in prices. He cheats them because he promises a better life, a better world. Reality, however, is quite different. During the shopping process, people meet inflation in Orbán every day. Unfortunately, the countryside and villages are falling behind in comparison to a city life. Fidesz also has the local mayors under control; all support depends on their loyalty to government policy. [[Dr. Miklós Simon:]] A modern, forward-looking rural development policy aims at making agriculture competitive, ensuring sustainable management of natural resources and achieving a balanced territorial development of rural economies and communities. The government's rural development vision does not contain any of these, as there is no budget for reducing the impact of inflation in Orbán, which also affects the countryside. What would DK want? Better rural quality of life and higher prosperity. It is necessary to promote generational change, to meet the diverse, respected employment expectations of young people in rural areas so that as many young people as possible stay in their homes and are not sucked up by multi-enterprises. Due to the migration of rural populations and young people, it is of the utmost importance that rural areas and communities continue to offer attractive housing and jobs, for which services and opportunities should be provided to rural residents and made more accessible. Businesses in traditional rural areas and new sectors of the economy should be supported. In order to achieve this, we believe that Klara Dobrev is our only hope. It is now essential to have a fast Internet, and therefore everything should be done to make it accessible to everyone. Currently, nearly 2 thousand settlements live without high-speed internet service, and data transmission is failing. If the state was already able to spend more than HUF 300 billion to buy Vodafone's partly owned property in these difficult times when Hungarian people were affected by inflation in Orbán, then it is reasonable to expect that it will take immediate action to access the Internet. However, we see that the most important thing for Viktor Orbán's government is the enrichment of NER and its circles. Because of the bleeding out of municipalities, they cannot improve the living conditions of their own inhabitants. Take a look around to see how the local roads and buildings are. How many times does it say that a local government can't pay for that, can't even pay for that? Yeah, a lot of times. [[12.00]] Of course, in the pro-government settlements, the usual bells ring, you know: Brussels, Soros, war. But we know the real problem is the government's failed economic policy, inflation in Orbán. The government only considers the countryside to be important verbally. His actions make it worse for the people there, making it harder for them to live there. They're eliminating local mail. I'm not sure the GP's ordering this week. The means of public transport are unconventional. This increases the exodus. In the country, traffic jams are very common. The government will do nothing to eliminate these traffic jams as quickly as possible. What do you do instead? It postpones the necessary investments. It is especially important to build roads to avoid settlements; this would make people's daily lives easier. However, the budget for 2024 does not contain any positive progress in this respect. Rural settlements are severely affected, a significant number of people living there are no longer insured by general medical and dental care. Hundreds of thousands of people don't have a permanent home doctor. Measures should be taken immediately to increase the popularity of the general medical profession. You do realize that the health of everyone's own and family members is the most important thing. Why doesn't the government do everything it can to provide basic care to everyone under normal circumstances? We know that this sector only takes the money and does not directly benefit. Health is one of the most important things for people in the countryside, like all of us. It's an old saying that when you have health, you have everything. In his name, the family-friendly government has been unable to provide budget support for free vaccinations that prevent very serious diseases, such as the provision of vaccination against severe pneumococcal infection to people over 70 years of age. Please support these opposition proposals. In response to a written question from my colleague, Ágnes Vadai, the Ministry of Construction and Transport suspended 270 investments until 6 June 2023. The reason for these suspensions is the deterioration of the financial situation, for which only the government's poor economic policy, the constant fight in Brussels and inflation in Orbán are responsible. This is rural development Fidesz-style. The amending proposal is a package of alternative budgets for the Democratic Coalition to support local governments. In particular, the position of municipalities is unfortunately deteriorating due to their declining tax and other revenue and their increasing spending obligations. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Indeed, the modest increase in subsidies received from within public finances cannot compensate for tax revenues taken from local authorities, the deteriorating position of local entrepreneurs and the population in declining payments and increasing support needs. The government hijacked the car tax. It obliges municipalities to pay an increased level of solidarity contribution tax in favour of the central budget compared to previous years. According to DK, the municipalities that have been tortured by the epidemic, the crisis, the war and the employment problems, which have been completely bled out by the government's actions, deprived of a significant proportion of their revenue, cannot manage the solidarity contribution tax that has been increased by nearly 65 percent. DK therefore proposes that the budget freezes the amount of the solidarity contribution to be paid by local authorities at 2008 level, based on the business tax collected in 2022. The amending proposal included development investments outside the capital, worth a total of HUF 186 billion, which are essential for the development of the region. Please support these proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-06-15-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Gyula Tamás Szeberényi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Minister Mihály Varga started his exposé with stability and predictability. He built his speech around these two concepts, and it is not a coincidence, because the country is in a very uncertain foreign policy and foreign economy and there is a whole Europe. We are in a period of war, and everyone here is primarily thinking of the Russian-Ukrainian war in our neighbourhood, but this is not the only crisis that threatens Europe or threatens the world. Obviously, in this extremely precarious situation, the most important goal is to preserve the results achieved, to maintain stability and to plan in the long term. A defence budget has therefore been created, focusing on public security and defence. In the budget of 2024 there will be more funding for defence expenditure, thus strengthening the Defence Fund, with a budget of HUF 1309 billion in 2024, while total defence expenditure exceeds 2 percent of GDP. In addition to the fact that this is also a NATO expectation, this has never been achieved by previous governments. Why can the opposition not support the government's efforts? Earlier, in his previous speech, Mr Csárdi felt that there was a contradiction between the Hungarian government's pro-peace policy and the development of the army. One of the oldest knowledge of humankind in society is that anyone who wants to avoid war must prepare for battle must create a situation in which he is not worth attacking. István Hiller may be able to quote this phrase in Latin, but this important knowledge, it seems, does not belong to opposition representatives, since they keep asking why we are developing the army, why we are developing our defence capabilities if we are preparing for peace. That's why, that's the point. Next year's budget will also preserve the Rezségvédelmi Fund, which will provide more than HUF 1360 billion for the payment of energy bills for families, state and local government bodies, institutions and companies. Through this system, the government will ensure the lowest level of European rent for families. In his speech, Ferenc Gyurcsány said, in my view, quite rightly, that the opposition cannot vote in favour of the budget, because it wants to achieve the common good with a completely different vision, with other goals and other means. It is therefore not expected that you will vote in favour, and I will therefore not end today's speech with what I usually do, by asking opposition parties to support the budget, like Fidesz. I understand that they have a very different vision, that they have a very different view of the country's future, and that they use completely different instruments. What I do not understand, however, is why this does not form a coherent picture and why it is not being communicated to us. Several opposition representatives have recently also asked Mr Varju not to refer to the activities of former governments ten years ago, but the shadow government is obviously also formed, and these speeches are also intended to convey this different vision to society. However, society may also need to know what happened when these opposition ideas were put into practice. And these, if they are not in a thank-you relationship with the current ideas, with the speeches that are being made, then society should also know that, therefore, I ask Mr Varju to accept that we sometimes warn and confront him that when he was in government, when he was in power, what he did, and in light of that, we must also examine these speeches. [[László Varju: I hope it will be mutual, Congressman.]] Yeah, of course it's mutual, and we're gonna take it. [[12.10]] Of course, there are other values besides the rent and property that must be protected. These include, for example, the preservation of the purchasing value of pensions. The amount of budgetary resources available for pensions and pensions increases to HUF 6542 billion, which is the largest item of the budget. Despite the economic difficulties, the inflation-following pension increase remains, with a fully re-established and increased 13th month pension, as the government will spend nearly HUF 450 billion on this in 2024. The head of the DK faction mentioned in his speech that this system, which provides for an inflation-following pension increase, makes it impossible for pensioners to move forward. There are three problems with that. One is that this was said by a politician who, in his time, had no hope for pensioners to even maintain the purchasing value of pensions. But there are two other specific problems: one is the pension premium, which the head of the group forgot, obviously because, at the time of his administration, there was never a pension premium paid, and the second is the retirement of the 13th month pension, which, according to the original plans, would have been completed in February 2025, but because of the excellent performance of the economy, it was able to happen in 2022. In recent wartimes, the government also prioritises support for Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing, and the benefits of the family tax system will continue to be the personal income tax exemption for women who have at least four children and have children over 30 years, and the personal income tax exemption for those under 25 will continue to be guaranteed. The combined amount of family policy spending and tax incentives is thus over HUF 3300 billion. There is also a significant difference between the ruling parties and the opposition. Many times opposition representatives, such as Péter Balassa, have raised the issue of family allowance, for example today. The Secretary of State has already replied, and I would like to address this in a sentence. Obviously, the setting that families can only spend one third is false, because the family allowance has not increased, as this government has provided much more for families from other sources. In addition to the family allowance, the government has developed the rate of family tax relief, which, in itself, may not be enough, but in addition, has practically achieved full employment, which means that those who want to work and who work get much further ahead will get much more for families through family tax incentives. However, maintaining all of this has only been achieved if the balance of the budget is maintained, if public debt is reduced and the deficit is reduced. In addition to 4 percent annual economic growth, the budget expects the convergence programme to continue to reduce deficit and reduce public debt next year. According to the draft budget law, we are expecting an economic growth of 4%, inflation of 6 percent, deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 2.9 percent, and the legal security reserve. The government considers it a priority that, if GDP increases above forecast, the additional revenue should be used to further reduce the deficit. This has not always been the case, let us remember that before 2010, even before the 2008 crisis, in favourable external economic conditions, the government of that time did not reduce public debt, not with a low deficit, but just increased it and lived up to the future. All I've ever talked about is how we keep what we keep and how we protect which achievements, and what the condition is, but the budget not only protects, it not only preserves the values of the past, but also creates new ones. Supporting investment and supporting innovation are an important part of government's economic policy. These are also significant steps in terms of my own constituency. The budget includes the development of the electricity infrastructure of the Kecskemét Industrial Park, financing its implementation in 2024 for more than HUF 4 billion, and continuing to calculate an additional 3 billion by 2025. The Hungarian village program will be continued as well. I have heard the remarks of the Danish Congresswoman on the depopulation of the countryside. In my constituency, one of the biggest problems with the municipality of Helvécia is that it has passed the 5,000 people and has fallen out of the. The other settlement, Ballószög, has crossed the 4,000; it is not depopulation, but its population is growing dynamically, mainly because of government policy, because of CSOK developments. As a result, there are, of course, development needs, road development needs, which we can count on in the next year's budget. In Kecskemét the construction of the new building of the Vocational Training Center Kada Elek Szakgimnázium and Technicum will continue in the Rudolf barracks. I believe that the next year's budget, in addition to seeking stability and security, will serve the development of my narrower country, Kecskemét and its neighbourhood and the whole country, and I and the Fidesz fraction will therefore vote for it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Sándor Szabó. I'll wait for him to put the microphone on. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-15-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The bill, as we have already been accustomed to before us, was actually made without knowing the facts, in fact, in the absence of an account in 2022, so its validity is questionable, in many of the lots even the government doesn't really know how the processes are going. In this way, it is safe to say that on 1 January 2024 the country will have a budget that has almost no connection with reality, and then the government will transform it again with a regulation or hundreds of government decisions, as it did this year. In the draft budget of 2024 the government expects an average annual inflation rate of 6 per cent, which is a very bold commitment in terms of current economic, industrial and construction conditions or consumption conditions. By the way, this year's budget expenditure will increase from HUF 39 776 billion to HUF 40 775 billion, i.e. by 2.5 percent. So if we count everything after inflation, we can see here that the government is planning to spend less. The government is planning a budget of HUF 425 for the following year, which I think would need an explanation, as this is a significant change compared to the current euro exchange rate. The question of what the government knows or knows is, of course, what it doesn't share with us. In 2024 the increase of interest rates on Hungarian public finances could result in significant additional expenditure, through the increase in interest expenditure on the budget and the reimbursement of the loss of the central bank. Last year's interest expenditure will jump from 2.8 percent to 3.8 percent this year, and this will continue to rise further next year, reaching 4.1 percent of GDP. By the way, this means that while in 2022 it will increase by approximately HUF 1900 billion, this year it will increase by 1000 billion more, and next year it will increase by another HUF 500 billion, i.e. nearly HUF 3500 billion. The budget in front of Parliament for next year has been made with severe determination, with few reserves, based on rather volatile planning foundations, increasing the risk of realization. The danger of the 2023 is realistic. [[Sic!]] appropriations will not be met and there are additional risks for next year's budget. And I am not the only one saying this, and the Budget Council has also referred to this, and has once again made open criticism of the plan, because the Orbán government has not shown how it intends to address budgetary risks. And from the risks, as I've already said, there are a lot of them. If we look at the budget figures for 2024 in more detail, then it turns out that the framework for hospitals, university and defence has indeed been spectacularly increased by the government, but there is little money available for primary schools, secondary schools and general practitioners than this year, if we also count how much inflation will devalue these amounts. [[12.20]] We can also say that more money is available for families, education, health care, says the government, while, by the way, it is obvious that if we count on this 6 percent inflation, we really cannot talk about real growth. I would like to stress that this is also a fiction, and I will analyse it several times in my speech, because this 6 percent inflation commitment is very bold, as I have said, it will be much higher at any time, and in our opinion it will put everything on a different footing by how much money will be made for each sector in the next year's budget. That is why it is incomprehensible to us why the budget cannot be planned during a fall period, as it was before, much earlier, of course. Since the Covid period, especially now, it is even more interesting, and given the figures, the government does not have enough information on how the next year will be going, and these processes would obviously be more visible and better planned for the next year's budget, as the cases progress in the autumn. There are also areas where nominally less money is available next year, such as environmental protection, with only 542 billion from 647 billion, housing, municipal and community activities, and five times less money than this year, 808 billion from 1017 billion. And, of course, we are talking about the Retirement Fund, but here, too, there is a significant reduction compared to this year. Obviously, the government is counting on a reduction in energy prices, but if it is counting on a decrease in energy prices, then I think that this should also be reflected in the decrease in consumers' and people's energy bills. I am quite certain that agriculture will also be the loser of the next year's budget. Here, of course, the budget for next year is slightly increasing, but this is not even as much as the government plans to do with inflation, so here the increase is 4.8 percent against the planned 6 percent by the government. Here it has been said several times, but the government does not save money on the armed forces, indeed, 28 percent more for defence spending, 1796 billion forints, and 15 percent more for law enforcement and public security. The most spectacular part of the education budget is the increase in support for higher education, which is almost 40 percent. At the same time, the framework for kindergartens and primary schools is growing by 6.6 percent, and I would not say that it is a significant increase if, by the way, we continue to count on the 6 percent inflation that the government is saying. However, high schools must be in bad shape, since their budget will increase by less than 3.5 percent next year. GPs and pediatricians are also worse, as the framework for their support will increase with inflation in the next year, in Hungarian, we can say that it is stagnant, but obviously, if inflation gets worse, they will probably get less. The government isn't too generous with social services either. It is important to note that there is also a sharp reduction in public involvement in welfare expenditure compared to 2010 because while in 2010 31.1 per cent of GDP went into welfare expenditure, this amount or percentage in 2024 compared to the percentage of GDP [[Sic!]] It's only 23.2 percent. Although the framework for family allowances and benefits for children shows a 9.7 percent increase, this is just above inflation. About the same amount of 8.4 percent increase in pensions can be seen, but this will not actually cause the same increase in purchasing power as the government is planning, at most stagnation, as we think, and we believe that this will unfortunately happen. I would also like to say, even if Mr Siberényi believes otherwise, that it is important to note that the amount of the family allowance has not increased by one forint in 13 years, and the government has not raised it by a penny, while this form of support, the form of family support, is the most important thing for families. Moreover, several expert surveys have revealed this, and this is indeed a substantial form of financial support for families. This is also evident in the fact that consumption is falling significantly in the current period, and the reason for this is, indeed, that the family allowance that families receive has not changed in 13 years. Other social assistance has been reduced by nearly a quarter. At the same time, it is not possible to go without saying that there are thousands of billions of forints here for purposes that, to put it mildly, are neither cardinal nor very fortunate in this economic situation. Just a few examples: public media, they want to spend 126 billion forints of public money on this next year. From the encrypted contract, from Chinese credit, the Budapest-Belgrád railway is another 103 billion. The Debrecen graft factory, about which Minister Gulyás Gergely said that with Covid's fall, they have no idea what they're going to manufacture there, is 16 billion plus. MLSZ plus 11 billion and for further government communication, Gyula Balászy will receive 39 billion; I'm sure it won't be a big problem to be able to buy his next luxury car. A little about the municipalities, since I worked primarily in the local government area during the previous period, and I used to speak in relation to the budget in relation to the municipalities. If we look at the local government budget next year, although there is indeed a nominal growth, but in real terms, as we are measuring this figure close to 6 percent inflation, there is no such increase in the local government budget for next year either. Here too, too, stagnation is a feature of the local government budget, and I might add once again what happens if inflation is not 6%, but higher. Many of the taxes called solidarity contributions have already said 43 billion in 2020, 3 times in 2022, 217 billion last year. This year, the government wants to collect 307 billion, and here, interestingly, there is a 41 percent increase compared to last year, which is almost seven times higher than inflation. 40 percent of the car tax has been taken away from the municipalities a long time ago, the entire central revenue goes to the government, now 100 billion. If we look at the municipalities and compare them to the situation in 2019, this means a loss of HUF 40 billion for the municipalities. In my tighter environment, in my constituency, in Szeged, these figures appear as follows: the car tax is 600 million HUF withdrawal for the city, the solidarity tax, which was 2.9 billion in the past year, this year 3.6 billion HUF, the lack of public transport support in inflation is nearly 400 million HUF, the utility tax is another 500 million HUF, and I could say more. The program "Modern Cities" will be terminated, but the program "Magyar válaszló" will not look good either. As a whole, it can be said for municipalities that next year's budget will not solve their problems. Since the local elections in 2019, the epidemic situation, the energy crisis, has exacerbated this and it can be said that due to further decline in revenues, high energy prices and inflation, it is unlikely that the situation of municipalities will improve, especially for small settlements. This is why I have tabled an amendment, as I have already made in previous years, an individual amendment to the MSZP fraction, which I have made in particular to improve the financing of municipalities, which calls for the car tax to remain fully in the municipalities, which they can devote to infrastructure development, to receive back the settlements' HUF 3 billion support for community transport. Among my individual amendments to the preparation of the southern Tisza Bridge is 2 billion. I propose that the road section between Szeged-Kübekháza be renovated, and this is a terrible part of the road, the bicycle route between Klárafalva-Kiszombor, and the renovation of the old school in Újszentiván in the next period. Returning to the budget, in general, it can be said, or it can be concluded, that there are significant restrictions and that the government has submitted a budget for debt and uncertainty to the Parliament. The figures on which the plan is based appear to be largely unfounded, and the market is also seriously treating this situation, and instead of doing everything the government can to reach an agreement with the EU on how the funds will arrive, the Hungarian economy will have access to these resources, we see much more as it destroys legal certainty, regulates the country by regulation, and newer and more special taxes and tax increases. It is also clear that the government is still not really interested in the almost collapsing public education and health system, and even in other sectors, we can see that inflation is causing significant cuts. [[12.30]] It collects more taxes next year, we have already talked about this, and unfortunately, the tax burden on families is also increasing, although VAT and planned personal income tax revenues result in higher revenue for the government around 10%. In this regard, and on the basis of what has been said, the MSZP cannot support the budget for the following year. Thank you.
u2023-06-15-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mrs Elias Boglárka. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-06-15-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to express my thanks and respect to the Secretary of State and to the staff of the Ministry of Finance through the Secretary of State, partly because it has been almost ten years now that the draft budget for the spring session is being prepared and presented to us for the spring session, which we can discuss, and which gives the local authorities, families and other institutions and Hungarian citizens adequate preparation time, and partly because this is now the second time that I can take part in the debate on the budget law, and I find that there is a steady increase in the number of non-graduate economists among left-wing Members, and the arguments that we hear, in fact, are not in line with the reality, I think. But together with all this, all 25 years of professional experience and the professional knowledge that the Secretary of State has, he seeks to give respect, humility and professional arguments to provide answers and appropriate arguments. But I think that, since Mr. Secretary of State is an excellent sportsman, a long-distance runner, we can see this here, because he even helps those who fail because the goal is clear, the aim is to ensure and guarantee the protection of the Hungarian population together, all citizens of Hungary and Hungary. Allow me to draw attention to three more things, given that, for many years now, I feel that you want to turn the world upside down and turn Hungary upside down. But when I listen to such a debate and monitor it, partly here personally and partly through online mediation, I see that this is already a reality on the left, because either they are watching this budget law through reverse glasses, or their world is completely upside down and they are trying to see reality from there. After all, those left-wing Members who were above 4 per cent of unemployment during their time are criticising the budget, but economic growth has never reached 4 per cent. Under national governments, this is exactly the other way around, because it is unemployment that is below 4 percent, and it is economic growth that is constantly above 4 percent, rather, that has been the case until the time of the pandemic, and I am sure that this will continue to be the case in the future, thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy. We also know very well that this is also a prerequisite for the payment of the pension premium, so I can see that this 4 percent has brought you into its spell. The other is that the left is making criticisms about the reduction of the rent and the maintenance of the reduction of the rent, during which we know very well that the price of the gas has been increased 15 times. With regard to Hungary, we also see that the price of gas imported to Hungary has increased by five times as a result of the war and the penalties that have failed, my fellow Members, and even so in Europe, based on Eurostat data, the price of gas is the lowest in Hungary, and the price of electricity is the second lowest, which I see as the Secretary of State consistently draws the attention of all the Members who are in the room, because this is a figure that I think is worth paying attention to. I also see that you do not mind that it is the left-wing representatives who are working in Brussels to ensure that Hungarians do not receive the funds they deserve. [[László Varju: That's a lie!]] and constantly trying to criticize the Hungarian government; the Hungarian government that is doing everything in its power to bring the resources that are rightfully due to the Hungarian people. And here, in recent months, and in recent months, we have passed all the laws which are also intended to help them arrive in Hungary as soon as possible, and we can provide the Hungarian people not only with the development but also with the increase in the wages of teachers, among other things. What I would also like to draw attention to is the importance of defence spending. I think it is important to emphasise this because I think that you cannot criticise this either, especially in the light of the fact that we know very well that during the time of the left-wing period, the number of defences fell below 29 thousand, and if we express it in the GDP ratio, then the percentage of spending on defence was slightly higher than 1 percent. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Vadai's defense!]] I think at this extraordinary time, when we have been constantly facing the wave of migration that has struck and affected us since 2015, when there has been a war that has started in our neighbourhood for 476 days, our soldiers and our police officers must ensure the safety of our country not only in the southern part of the country, but also in the eastern part of the country. Here, I think it is important to highlight and stress that we, in proportion to GDP, are spending more than 2 percent of the budget on defence expenditure, but, as Mr Secretary of State said, defence industry development is not yet included, so that will be added. So if we look at the proportions that this has achieved during the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, and what the Hungarian government has been paying due attention and attention to for years in the period before the war, then we can certainly see which government is trying to protect the Hungarian people. I think that our goal must remain clear that the costs of war are not financed by the Hungarian people, and that Hungarians and Hungary should not get involved in the war, because even if, according to the hyperpassive mayor, Gergely Karácsony, our country is at war, it is our job to first draw the attention of Hungarian citizens to the irresponsible and dangerous nature of this statement, and to ensure, in any case, that Hungary's security and protection are guaranteed and that we stand for peace. Dear House, Minister of Finance Mihály Varga in his expo, I believe that he has properly framed and highlighted the emphasis on next year's draft budget, and, as I have already said several times, it is the defence budget that is currently in front of this House. At these times, it is important to be able to plan ahead because of stability and planning, war inflation and a misguided Brussels sanctions policy, which, of course, does not mean that it is not worth reviewing the budget in the meantime, whether in autumn or in the course of next year. We also see that we can rely on ourselves, but it is important to put this as a requirement for ourselves. I believe that the HUF 220 billion reserve in the budget should also be given a special emphasis during the debate. Hungary now has a government that is important to protect families, pensioners are important, it is important to guarantee the solvency of pensions, it is important to protect jobs, reduce costs and, of course, ensure the safety of families. Finally, allow me to respond in this long-term debate to a few left-wing comments or some left-wing manifestations, for which I believe that, although with the facts and figures already in response to them, my fellow Members have repeatedly confirmed the untruth of these statements and that this has not affected the left-wing argument, and I do not see that their perception of reality, but partly for the sake of the minutes, and partly for the attention of those who follow the debate. In terms of health, the MSZP said exactly the following during the last day:. According to next year's budget, the Fidesz government will further reduce the financing of health. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[12.40]] This is, as has been said, clearly not a real statement, because the truth is that there is nearly HUF 2000 billion more available than what the left has submitted for the 2010 budget. Since 2010, we have achieved the highest rate of wage growth in health care. I think that we can be proud of this and, of course, it is important that we continue this trend in the future. I don't think we're at the end of this right now. With regard to education, the Dialogue said within Parliament's walls that we would be taken away from education. Of course, this is not true either, as the educational expenditure in 2024 exceeds HUF 3400 billion, and this figure is clearly miles larger than what the pre-2010 government intended for education. There will be nearly HUF 240 billion more in higher education and nearly HUF 400 billion more in non-tertiary education than in 2023, so there is a significant increase even compared to last year. For us, of course, these untruths, which are constantly being said by left-wing representatives, are not surprising, as we should think of Klára Dobrev's shadow minister, the shadow minister of education, who had previously denied illegal migration. Finally, I would respond to the statement of the left-wing boss, as he claimed that he wanted the pension to be carried out on an insurance basis, and he also made the statement that the civilian side had taken away hope from pensioners. That statement was made by the fallen Prime Minister, the fallen Prime Minister repeatedly lies to the Hungarian people who took the 13th month pension, during which period the pension premium was paid [[László Varju intervenes.]] Honourable Member, the pension premium has not been paid during your time, it has not happened! We also returned the inflation-following pension increase and the 13th month raised pension [[László Varju: Valuability!]] the Hungarian pensioners, the 13th month pension, which was taken from pensioners by the left. It seems like Mr. Group Leader is constantly forgetting what happened, but we are here, and we are trying to draw his attention and his memory to this. [[László Varju: You shouldn't lie!]] Allow me also to quote from the Prime Minister's festive speech of 15 March 2022, according to which he made it clear. He clearly said that Hungarians should also do what all nations consider: think with Hungarian heads and feel with a Hungarian heart. I believe that this budget is clearly a budget prepared by Hungarian thinkers and those with a Hungarian heart, and I therefore ask you that Members who think with a Hungarian head and feel with a Hungarian heart support the budget before us, even if we are not discussing billions or millions of dollars here, because they may already see such statements on the left several times; this is the budget in Hungarian forints. I ask you to be kind and support me; be kind and support me, not because I am asking you, but because this is for the safety and protection of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-15-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Zoltán Sas. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Next year's draft budget was called the defence budget in view of the war situation. From this we can draw the sad conclusion that the creators are counting on next year as a war year in May and June, and the fights will continue next year. I guess I'm not going to tell you a secret that we're all interested in a just peace of mind, and we really want us to stop planning for the next year with a war budget, but if that's the case, then an increase in defence expenditure may be necessary and justified. The question is whether the financial resources set aside for this will be sufficient. Obviously, as usual, this budget will also be amended several times. And then a few thoughts about protection, and maybe we'll start with the defence, which is the most important and most important because of the war situation. It must be acknowledged that budget figures are extremely high in this respect, as we are planning to spend on military technical developments in a way that goes beyond NATO's expectations. Based on the experience of war, we must say that the use of modern combat equipment is indeed necessary in order to fight a war in substance, and it is necessary for Hungary's defence capabilities and NATO's interests to be equipped with modern equipment, whether these are combat drones, mobile missile artillery, armaments and air defense capabilities, without which there is no modern army. However, we also need to point out that, based on the press reports of the past period, we are not being served within the federal system, or at least for now it seems that we are unable to access or obtain certain modern tools. I would also like to point out that since the beginning of the war, some instruments have been eight to nine times more expensive than in the days prior to the outbreak of the war. However, it is of the utmost importance for development that we not only have modern and modern fighting tools, but also that we need a man, a Hungarian soldier who is trained to handle them and can use them. For soldiers to be available in sufficient numbers, a much better wage is obviously required. We have seen in Kosovo, and I also commend those Hungarian soldiers who stood there, and I wish those who were injured to get well, we have seen that our soldiers, such as Italian soldiers, have done the same job, they have been injured by the same bearing balls, but it is worth seeing the wages of an Italian soldier or a Western European soldier and a soldier serving in Hungary. I think that those who defend Europe's security should receive European wages. The other may be an important security and defence issue is the issue of law enforcement. We can see that the police are understaffed, and we can also see that the pressure on them is increasing, especially in the border area. The smugglers, who have settled on immigration, taking advantage of them, harassing them, and otherwise acting very violently and harshly in relation to Hungarian border protection bodies, commit their crimes and acts of violence across borders; these pose new challenges to our police officers, and unfortunately, the number of violence against officials has also been very high in recent years. It is therefore necessary and justified to modernise and obtain personal protective equipment for police officers. It further complicates the situation that, in recent years, the decision on quotas can certainly lead to an increase in the number of immigrants, thus increasing the phenomenon of smuggling people, and this will also pose new challenges for Hungarian law enforcement. Of course, this is not eligible. I will not tell you the secret that perhaps the easiest way to increase the number of police officers is to raise the now slowly and even one-and-a-half decades of frozen law enforcement salary, which has been HUF 38 650 since 2008. Yes, I know that last year the police made more money through arms money and other benefits, but I am convinced that the increase in wages guaranteed by law is the real solution for our police to earn more, thus keeping the existing stock in part, and it will also be much easier to recruit, so that the police can better ensure the statutory tasks of both internal areas and border protection. I would also like to say a few words about the situation of firefighters, as the situation of firefighters is also quite problematic. There, too, there is a very, very significant shortage of numbers. We can see that some of the cars have already gone out with reduced numbers. So this is an extremely risky situation in terms of efficiency. In the last few days, there's been some news that's amazing to me, and I think it's something that needs to be done. In a letter from the Ministry of Interior, professional firefighters were informed that their group life and accident insurance had ceased since April. [[12.50]] And right now, if you look at it like that, you're going out without insurance to perform a duty that is necessarily a life-threatening situation for them. By the way, I believe that the Hungarian government is in breach of the law by default, since the year XXX. law states that for firefighters, this group insurance must be concluded, and that this is how they must perform their duties. I think this is such an unjustified risk that we should not allow firefighters to continue to leave like this. The Hungarian budget must be able to manage an extra cost of between HUF 150 million and HUF 200 million in order to bring this insurance system back to life for firefighters. I'm asking you not to save on firefighters' lives, firefighters' safety. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-06-15-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Zsolt Szabó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget for 2024 before us raises some points in my mind that I would like to begin my speech with a group of professional questions; on the one hand, it is the responsibility of responsible management, because, let us admit, sometimes we hear speeches in Parliament that seem to lack the legal background available and functioning in Hungary. I refer here to the principle of gross settlement, the principle of convergence, the existence of compulsory accounting and other things like that. What exactly am I thinking? For example, among the Members who spoke before me, the representative of the MSZP, who, unfortunately, is no longer in the room, specifically said his suggestion on the exchange rate that the exchange rate is planned. Well, I would refer to an earlier period in 2002. CHAPTER VI 12. when, on the basis of the forecasts, the total exchange rate system in Hungary fell over three weeks, and it had a completely opposite effect during their governance. Many small and medium-sized enterprises then ceased to exist and closed their doors. I refer to another fundamental error that I keep hearing when I hear that there is a six percent increase in the support of an area, or, say, 10 percent more in the area. Well, it's not just revenue, it's not just income, it's not just income growth, it's the internal professional content. This is particularly true, for example, in the case of education, where the internal content can always change, the number of children, normative, and other such questions, and when I compare two numbers, I do the right thing when I know these professional content. The third point that we would like to make is that in order to put together a country's budget, the budget for the year 24, we do not have to wait for 2022 to be closed, because when we close a budget, it will be status-like, but in fact, the accounting, the budget is a continuous procedure, and the data for 2022 are already available much earlier. I'm sure the budget for 2024 is a responsible budget. But let us not forget: responsible farming also means that we all know that we need more money in this area, in this area, in this area, in this area, but if it does not have an appropriate revenue side, I am making a very big mistake in planning the budget. I would like to refer to 2004 when this was achieved in the country's budget. I take responsible steps, I arrange wages, I raise areas, I write career models, I know their cover in the long run, and I think that's when I manage the budget responsibly, that's when I plan well. And some numbers, if you'll allow me, let me say what is very important to me, and it's very important to the people in Hungary too. One is the National Employment Fund. There is often a question of why we do not give aid, why we do not give support, why we want to give work, why we want full employment. Well, it is very simple: in the long term, we want Hungarian families to be able to raise children safely, live and live safely; and we want to have as many jobs as possible and to keep and support as many jobs as possible. I would like to say that there is no area in this country where there is no vacant job or few. We support job seekers, with a budget of approximately HUF 130 billion in 2024 and also for public employment, the Start Work Programme, which I consider very important, and in my district, in the 3rd district of Heves, there is a lot of positive results, HUF 125 billion, so we will continue these two priority areas. I would also like to point out in particular that we would like to strengthen pre-financing and co-financing programmes from the EU by HUF 85 billion, and that financial resources for retraining, job and labour change are also available. What I would like to say is also said here because we do not support small and medium-sized enterprises. Two priority areas, one of which is the allocation, the Hungarian allocation. When we support the establishment of a multinational company, we also support Hungarian companies; there are many Hungarian suppliers, co-companies, cooperating companies. Specific examples of this can be given, I can say I would not like to name a company in areas where more than a hundred small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses operate and work around a company. And the other one, I just want to refer to one thing. In his speech, my colleague György Czerván said that we support small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the countryside by nearly HUF 200 billion within the framework of the rural development programme. Each of them is directly and directly funded in the economy, but I could even mention the long-standing Széchenyi card and many other programmes, such as direct support for energy-exposed companies, energy conversion programmes, this has plenty of Hungarian resources and there is also a European Union resource while we are here. We have already discussed the issue of the pension fund several times today; I would like to say some figures in order to clarify. The pension fund, we know, is designed by more than 6,000 billion, with exactly HUF 6019.9 billion in 2024. The majority of this is obviously derived from the paid pension contributions, but the Hungarian government also supports this whole circle by HUF 464.7 billion. And what is very important: the possibility of women retiring with 40 years of entitlement is included in the Hungarian budget, which alone is HUF 467.4 billion. But it also includes planning funding for the 13th month pension by HUF 449 billion, including the pension premium by HUF 20.5 billion. It cannot be said enough, these are facts that are available; this also helps and allows the daily livelihood of pensioners. And after the level of inflation, of course, there are additions in this area that are currently planned for inflation of 6 percent, but, of course, this will be more covered by amending the budget, and pensioners will receive this added value. The issue of the Health Insurance Fund has been discussed in several ways and on several sides; I would like to address a few factors. He said, "Because it doesn't work." Rates: Health contributions, contributions, 51 percent of the so-called money for the Health Insurance Fund will cover the Health Insurance Fund in 2024. The Hungarian government adds 42.7 percent of the central budget to this, which is not a small amount of value. And I'm sure either the hospital system, the district medical system or the on-call system will be covered. The funding of the new medical on-call system can be found in the budget; it contains all the elements, such as the international child rescue service, necessary for the Hungarian health system to work. [[13.00]] And it also includes the wage increases and wage arrangements for health care workers, nurses. I believe that this is also a stable vision for Hungarian health. I would like to mention one more area: this is the area of social care; this issue always comes up. Don't forget, social services are always on three feet. On the one hand, the state: obviously it is possible to place the state and its various auxiliary organisations here; on the other hand, the municipalities, who also do a great deal, help, add, are linked to this, even by the church organizations that maintain these systems; and on the third, the family itself. Let us not forget: behind all social services is the family; behind all child care, behind all elderly care, the family must be there, and we believe in that. This is our way of thinking, and we want it to work as a stable system. Obviously, once again, there is no budget area where extra money cannot be added; we all know that and that is why we are working together. Therefore, my request to my honourable fellow Members here in this House is to adopt the draft budget for 2024; to support this budget and to maintain the financial stability that we have maintained and maintained over the past 12 years. I would ask you to vote in favour of this legislation, to vote in favour of this law, so that Hungary can operate. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-15-56	From the group of our country, Mr István Apáti is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Then I would like to explain why the Hungarian Movement does not accept this draft budget law. I could give you a long list of these reasons, well beyond my time frame, but let's go back a little further to exploring the causes and exploring the current economic situation. On the one hand, our country considers the attitude that this proposal will be submitted so much earlier before the deadline of 15 October to be quite irresponsible. In normal mode alone, in peacetime, in normal economic conditions, it is not certain that it is forward-looking, let us say, at the end of May or mid-June, to discuss the next year's budget, but in this situation, when only the number of uncertainty factors increases almost day by day, it is considered irresponsible. Consequently, it is encoded in this proposal that it will be necessary to amend even the definitions of the deficit target, the rate of inflation envisaged and other major parameters or corner numbers several times. During the morning, I heard from Minister of State Banai how good it is that, in the case of credit rating agencies, Hungary may, without exception, be classified into the category recommended for investment and recommended for investment. Their attitude is very interesting, because I remember very well that during the period 2010-14, when the country received a series of downgrades, you referred to the fact that you did not already say this abroad, what state the Hungarian economy is in, what indicators it has, and then you, as well as everything, know this much better, and it doesn't matter at all what the credit rating agencies say. When you gave a negative opinion, that's how you rated credit rating agencies. And when credit rating agencies are good for you, they say nice words to your hearts and ears, they come right in this year's budget debate as a strong reference. This is a rather strange and controversial attitude, honourable pro-government representatives. However, we have much bigger problems. One of them, I think, can be said here after all the gang banging and mumbo jumbo talk, is that there will be no EU budget money for at least another year. Unfortunately, the country will not get the development money because of the fight or war between Fidesz and the left or Balliberal side. May God grant me that I am wrong, and our country is not part of the adversarial parties, but based on simple political logic it is easy to justify. The EP and municipal elections will take place in about a year. The Balliberal side, whether international or domestic, is likely to think that it will try to starve those in the castle, and to take away as many bastions as possible, mainly in rural cities or small towns, over 10 thousand cities, from Fidesz; to delegate as many mayors as possible, if dissatisfaction will be due to inflation, largely due to you, or because of the lack of EU development opportunities, if another hard winter comes in, we will not be able to contain food inflation and even increase electricity and gas prices, then you, together with the retention of EU budget resources, may, in my opinion, be in a number of places where the left may be in difficulty, because of this kind of thinking, as the Hungarian left remembers accurately that two thirds of you started with the 2006 municipal elections in autumn. When the Autumn speech was published two weeks before the elections, it turned the public's mood, not only in a large, but also in a small town. And this is what the left is trying to do now, somehow, against you, to repeat in favour of the local elections in 2024, thinking that the parliamentary elections in 2026 might have a much greater chance than at any time in the previous four parliamentary elections. Therefore, I would be willing to bet a great deal of money that the country will not receive development resources for at least another year. By the way, Minister Martin the Great confirmed this assumption or assumption. He said that the country must be prepared to create without EU funds. This is rather sad, and according to Mi Hazak from here on out, it deserves to be considered whether the payment between 700-800 billion forints is not for you, it is the duty of the Hungarian people to fulfil it and it is their duty to accept it. Of course, immediately passing on the idea: what the consequences will be if those payments are not made. Because if the country does not receive the funds, then should it be mandatory for us to recognise the 700-800 billion forints that could be spent either on a teacher's wage increase or on various developments. As it stands, to give you some good news, agricultural resources, agricultural resources, are still coming. I very much hope that this will continue to be the case, because if the EU does not pay the funds belonging to the various titles of agriculture, then it is fundamentally questionable how much more meaning Hungary's membership of the EU still has. Although, if you, as a condition for Chinese loans and instead of EU funds, were to force the food processing industry instead of the Chinese battery factories, which are, unfortunately, a condition of loan-based sources, and created a purchasing environment, that Hungarian peasants, especially small and medium-sized family farms, would not lose the fruit of the sweaty work of the trading mafia, in other words, would be a normal buying-in price in this country, otherwise our exposure and dependence on EU funds would be much lower. For let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, however clever, resourceful, serious intellectual and physical work is carried out by Hungarian farmers, in most cases, if there were no EU funds, to say the least, they would have daily financing, livelihoods and economic problems. And it's not their fault, because they put their hearts and souls out there, produce, farm with honor and honor, but quite simply from the buying-in prices at such costs, in addition to such input prices, which, let's say, cost three times or four times that of Polish farmers, cannot be produced and even survive in a competitive way. This is also a strategic error; unfortunately, there is no change in the budget. According to the Hungarian Movement, a food processing industry should be built; you believe that battery factories and the German automotive industry should be strengthened. In practice, the country's fiscal balance is largely exposed to Brussels, Germany and Beijing. I think that this is very far from the true national Christian-Conservative thinking or values that seek independence and independence, but at the moment this budget must be planned in such a coordinate system, with such difficulties. I would like to say that I would like to expect a confession, or I would expect sentences from you, honourable pro-government Members, to feel responsible, take responsibility and take responsibility for something, because, despite all the difficulties and political minework, it is not always possible to refer to external circumstances. [[13.10]] After all, you had more than a decade before the draft budget law of 2024 to create a food processing industry, to create an independent Hungarian national economy, not only to strengthen a narrow, privileged entrepreneurial circle, but also to raise the micro and small business community significantly in a legal way, and then it would really be crisis-resistant, let us say, the Hungarian economy. But so that we can count on some of our hands around two major entrepreneurs or businesses only received significant help over the last 12 years, obviously our indicators are very weak and our options are very weak. In your view, this is the budget for protection, and we believe that this is the budget of uncertainty and uncertainty, which, I am enveloping, will have to be amended several times in the next period, certainly even in this calendar year. With what inflation you had in the 2023 budget proposal last year, we know very well how wrong you were. You thought it would be 3-4 percent inflation. Check it out. It was 25.7 in January; 25.4 in February; 25.2 in March; 24.7 in April and 21.5. in May. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Hasn't it decreased?!]] Well, that's a long way from that 3 percent. It's a long way, Congressman Nacsa. According to my mathematical knowledge, even 21 is seven times the 3 percent, so let's say this is a failed, unsinked category and shows very serious underdesign. Food inflation was still 44 percent in January, but we see 33.5 percent in May, so these indicators are extremely worrying. I would like to suggest to you with great respect that you be able to understand the wisdom that Minister Lazarus has about the bill on the order of works, and that we postpone this debate, and that we return to this in the middle of the early autumn or autumn, we have plenty of time to adopt the draft budget law, because in this way, in this form, very weak professional quality is just as bad as it does. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-15-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes a round of speakers. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor from the DK Group to Ms Ágnes Vadai, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening to a lot of self-proclaimed security and defence policy experts today, and they've almost reached Chief of Staff level, not too high, I'd like to say, given the last few years. At the same time, these representatives, who have revealed themselves here, were constantly silent when hundreds of soldiers over 45 years of age and 25 years of service were fired without justification, but also when a significant part of the women in the army faced sexual harassment in the Hungarian Army. But to help them develop, let's look at some numbers. Between 2010 and 2015, you spent 1 percent of GDP on the Hungarian Defence Forces, basically bleeding it out. In 15 and 16 he had just grazed the 1 percent, then from 16 onwards he was released from public procurement and in secret proceedings a sum of HUF 5000 to HUF 10 000 billion was made available in the budget until 2035. The Defence Fund, which you now so much like to refer to, obviously contains the payment details of the contracts previously concluded, which you have concluded in euros and dollars, of course at a different rate. Many of you have boasted about defence industrial developments. This means the production capacity of foreign companies in Hungary, not the development of the Hungarian defence industry, which is basically the sandbox of their fallen minister. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I would like to say to you that there has never been a opposition representative in this House who has never supported intelligent, transparent military development, ever! Csaba Hende came to a committee meeting several times, wanted to spend 150 billion on helicopters; we supported it, but you and your government did not support it. At the same time, fellow Members, allow me to draw your attention to one thing: iron without a man is worthless, and you are doing what you are doing to get iron, but people are being kicked out of the Hungarian Defence Service. Therefore, the shadow government was the only one to address this issue. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No! Oh, no.]] You have never, for once, dealt with the fate of the soldiers, the affairs of the soldiers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-15-60	Thank you very much, notary. He also applied for a two-minute speech from Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP group. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-61	I would like to respond to Mrs Ágnes Vadai; thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, it's not the first time we've been arguing about this, but we know exactly how before 2010 Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ágnes Vadai destroyed the Hungarian Defence Agency [[Dr. Agnes Vadai laughs.]] and what happened before 2010. Well, didn't you say the congresswoman was right, by the way, that iron wouldn't be worth anything without a man? Well, let's take a look at the number of reserve guards in 2010 with the blessing of Ágnes Vadai. 17 people, honourable Member, 17 people! Let us remember that in 2002 the number of defences allowed was 45 thousand, and in 2007 it barely reached 23 500, so that is what I call a setback, honourable Member. We also know that more than fifty defence organizations, military organizations, including health and education institutions, have been abolished; they have lived up to the military's stocks, and they have not even prepared a plan for their replacement by the Ágnes Vadai, and have decreased from 1.7 per cent to 1.1 per cent of GDP under the governance of Ferenc Gyurcsány, under the control of the defence budget of Ágnes Vadai. The assets of the military were squandered; 77 of the renovated and modernized T-72 types of tanks were donated, and most of the tractors were sold. The soldiers' salaries were not raised, so they put even the families of the soldiers in an unworthy position, honourable fellow Members. In this framework, in this context, it is worth appreciating the speech of Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, because if anyone has done much harm to the Hungarian defence, the Hungarian army, the point was Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ágnes Vadai, because there was a means of fighting that was sold at the price of metal, my fellow Members, sold them at the price of metal, they squandered and destroyed the Hungarian Defence. I think it's a shame, and it's very right that we're spending more and more on it, and not less on it, like they did. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. This concludes the two-minute speeches. A proper speech now follows from the DK Group by Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to tell Lőrinc Nacsa that the Poles didn't want to kick the Hungarians out of NATO then, but now. Hungary was then a respected member of NATO, and now the commander of the Polish ground forces wants to kick Hungary out of NATO because you became Russian, Putin-friendly. So much for that. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Toto dog!]] So we really represented the Hungarian defence [[Nacsa Lawrence: Toto dog! The president's ringing the bell.]] Unlike you, and the Hungarian national interest, unlike you. In the next few minutes, however, I would like to talk primarily about the media and culture. The Hungarian press is the winner of this budget in so far as Fidesz is, of course, pouring the money back into its lie factories, the Hungarian state media, which, by the way, was discovered in a video just recently in a video of how they faked the conversations that they themselves recorded with people on the street to show about the state of public opinion. These lie factories help maintain the power supported by propaganda, the dictatorship that the Orbán government is currently exercising. There is currently no freedom of the press in Hungary, and if the European Union has a number of reasons for not giving EU funds to Hungary and the Orbán government, there may be, among other reasons, that there is no freedom of the press in Hungary. And as for culture; well, there's a culture fight that puts its mark on our everyday lives. In recent days, quite amazing stories have ruffled the mood: the acquisition of Libri, for example, by the Janicsar Teacher of the Orbán government, from which the people's language immediately called it "Illibri". As a result, writers and other public figures in literature immediately indicated that they did not want to accept this situation and were trying to take the countermeasures that would otherwise affect them. But I could also say the scandal that arose around the Opera House, where, for example, it turned out that the committee that had been asked to decide who was the right director-general, Gergely Kesselyák, was recommending the conductor so far away from the political views of Fidesz, but for some reason, it seemed that Szilveszter Ókovács became the director-general, for example, Andrea Rost immediately said that he did not intend to perform in the Hungarian State Opera House in the future, which is an extremely serious loss of prestige for both the Opera House and for the actors of Hungarian culture; Andrea Rost, for example, is a world-famous opera singer, whose statements are being carried forward by international culture. [[13.20]] But obviously, Erika Miklósa understands what it's like to be very close to Fidesz, because she appeared on a competing television, and after that she was fired by Magyar Television, even though if someone was, Erika Miklósa had repeatedly put faith in Fidesz. I've never really understood that, but obviously he can see that this was a mistake. I can also describe when a Hungarian film won a prize at the Cannes Film Festival, and the current official Hungarian cinematography quickly publishes a statement to congratulate me, and this is a fantastic Hungarian film success. It just turns out that those who produced this film have applied to this government for support, and they made this film with practically French money and brought success to Hungary, the Hungarian culture. But the Andy Vajna system has failed. If Andy Vajna could see what is currently happening in Hungarian film production, then I think he would be terribly unhappy. As far as funding for culture is concerned, I could also say that what happens to independent theatres there is absolutely amazingly determined by the government to eliminate and destroy complete workshops. At the same time, for example, they create productions that, to say the least, do not achieve the recognition of the film audience. These are extremely serious problems. This also indicates that the Orbán government is extremely serious about this cultural war or civil war. The three Ts are back, some of the Orbán government's people decide who they ban, who they tolerate and who they support. We thought this system was a thing of the past, but unfortunately, it didn't. Hungarian culture and the Hungarian media, free media, are also the losers of next year's budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-15-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is the third day of the 2024 budget debate here before the Parliament, and I can draw some conclusions from these three days, honourable Members. That is the conclusion: there is no alternative to what the Ministry of Finance has submitted to the Parliament. Sometimes your lies, sometimes your misleading information, sometimes your accusations, and the amazing money-spending you've done here in words, I think it would upset public finances, lead to debt, increase the deficit. After all, in the last few days, you have made such verbal distributions of money, the billions have flown to this, to which, for what you consider important, you have spent hundreds, thousands of billions of forints, which would be a direct route to what we saw before 2010, the country's debt. And the country's debt is not an objective, whoever claimed it. From the left, it has been repeatedly said that next year we will only increase the debt. Well, it's exactly what's in the budget, in line with the Basic Law, that we're going to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio next year. We are also reducing public debt in times of crisis, which is important for the Parliament to adopt a stable and normal budget in times of danger, even in times of crisis. There's no alternative! The ideas you have put forward, the speeches you have brought here, all show that Hungary would be in a very difficult, extremely vulnerable and extremely dangerous situation if you planned the budget, honourable Members. We've seen an example of this before. When you planned the budget, you got less of everything, a cutback, a tax increase, an increase in public debt. Everyone would think there would be more money left in the budget, but, well, budget deficits were huge in your time. Everyone would think that the money left from this policy for development, while only unemployment increased, but unfortunately the improvements were not in the period before 2010. On the other hand, now the country has a stable budget, there is a stable economic policy for the country. I think it is difficult not to acknowledge the fact that, during a period of such crises, more money will be made in areas that you consider to be important than this year. More money for education, higher education, health care, more money for the development of defence. I find it quite strange that you consider these areas to be important in words, even Ferenc Gyurcsány talked about the importance of education and health, while these are the areas to which more money will be made in 2024 than in 2023. Let us not talk about how much more money, thousands of billions of HUF more money will be made in these areas, if we compare it with the last budget you have presented in 2010. Mr Abbot said that we use credit rating agencies exactly as our interests wish. Well, I've been browsing our country's Facebook page, and I'm seeing the same situation with the polls. When you are better measured by public opinion researchers, it's suddenly important when measured less well, then you say that it's just a number, you don't have to deal with it, you don't know if these numbers are true. I think that if you take something seriously and once you refer to it, you should refer to it again. By the way, the budget is the most mathematical debate here in Parliament, because here there are facts against facts. It's not about feelings, it's not about perception of reality, it's about specific numbers in the budget. It is possible to compare how these figures relate to this year's budget and compare how these figures relate to the 2006 Gyurcsányi, 2007 Gyurcsányi, 2008 Gyurcsányi or 2009 Gyurcsányi budgets. You will find such merciless differences, honourable Members, which I think is quite strange. We see that when the Varju Lászlós were responsible for economic policy, how the country went bankrupt, how unemployment became high and how taxes were constantly raised. I also wanted to respond to Mr Gréczy in a few sentences. The budget had little to do with what he said, but at the same time he brought the names of artists here and classified them as fidesz, not fidesz, and thought that the parliamentary speech was for listing Mr Gréczy. You can do that, obviously you have a right to do that, but I don't think it's tasteful that you start listing respected artists in this regard. We don't see such things around DK's house, and that's probably why we have this pressure in the Member to say so. Mr Abbot also brought EU funds here. Several spoke about the arrival of EU funds or not coming here. I think the formula is very simple. If you recall our last one-year parliamentary session, you will find that we have amended more than 17, now 19 laws under EU agreements. By the way, each vote shows who was interested in the agreement and who was not. For example, MEPs Gréczy and Varju were not interested in the EU's agreement with Hungary. Since Ferenc Gyurcsány's radio interview, we know that they are deliberately working against the Hungarian homeland. Since Csaba Molnár's statement, we know that they deliberately consider it a patriotic obligation not to arrive in Hungary. [[László Varju: Says Lőrinc Nacsa, who keeps lying!]]
u2023-06-15-66	Honourable Congressman, You'll have the opportunity to answer in two minutes.
u2023-06-15-67	Imagine, fellow Members, that Zsolt Gréczy and László Varju consider it a patriotic obligation for teachers, municipalities and small and medium-sized enterprises not to receive EU funds. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why are you lying?]] They said that they were there, and they tried to put your boss's words in a legal gown to hide the political process in which the political body in Brussels uses EU funds for blackmail. I would also ask you to try to convince Klára Dobrev, Sándor Rónai, Csaba Molnár and Attila Ara-Kovács, of course, Márton Gyöngyösi, Katalin Cseh, Anna Donáth and István Ujhelyi to work in Brussels not for 5-6 million HUF per month to avoid receiving the funds, but to use their relationship system, their contact capital, their political influence among their fellow Balliberians to receive these European Union funds. [[13.30]] How much better it would be, and perhaps not only would it be empty words from the mouth of Zsolt Gréczy that they consider any national interest to be important, it would not only be an empty horse-zung, but it would fill it with content, Congressman, if he could persuade his fellow parties working in the European Parliament to arrive. After all, we have made the commitments that we have made, we have gone to compromise, we have worked together with Brussels through the legislative passages where they have asked for change, some that we have accepted, some that we have not considered important, but because we have asked for it, we have done it, and as a result we now see that political blackmail continues at the moment, and we are actually going back to the end of it again, because we are not joining your pro-war camp, so they are not going to allow us to pay these legitimate European Union funds. Because I would also like to make it clear that it bothers me that you usually refer to European Union funds as Brussels money and as a gift money and as such, even though these are due to Hungary, this is not some kind of charity, but to Hungarian people, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and Hungarian teachers. I think it would be worth taking this approach to the budgetary issue, so to begin with the European Union's resources, not to prevent the Hungarian nation from achieving further successes together, but perhaps, sometimes, apart from their past, ideology, internationalism, a little along the lines of the Hungarian interest, to put aside their hatred for us. The problem is that you hate us more than you love your country, it's a disease, we hope you'll get over it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-15-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc David of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-69	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. I didn't really want to comment, but a lot of people mentioned the pension issue, and all the Members, Mr Nitrai, Mrs Elias and Mr Seberényi also spoke about the government's protection of pensions. It could be looked back for a very long time, but the man's memory is short, and I would like to talk briefly about what happened to pensions last year, how you didn't protect the pension. The story is very simple: last year there was a 14 percent increase in pension, pensioner inflation was 15.2 percent, all pensioners in Hungary failed 1.2 percent and failed twice, because once they did not receive it retroactively, once they did not include it in this year's raise. The other, which is an extraordinary indicator of the degeneration of pensions over the last decade, is that in 2010 we call this a substitution rate of 70 per cent in terms of average earnings and average pensions. In 2022, the average pension and average salary ratio was 50 percent, which means that pensions in Hungary were significantly devalued compared to wages. I would also like to tell you that they never do, but I would like to indicate that there are countries outside the euro currency, such as Poland and the Czech Republic, where the euro and the currency of that nation's currency have fallen to 4% and 10% respectively in 10-13 years. The Hungarian forint and euro exchange rates decreased by at least 40% in the lower voice. If these pensions are converted into euro, then we can see how the purchasing value of pensions has been preserved in 13 years. And let's talk about this year, because it's very important. This year five months have passed, every month inflation has been above 20 percent, pensioner inflation has always been higher. I would like to ask you that the 15 percent pension increase, which was from 1 January, is to compensate in grief for 25 percent, 23 percent inflation. It is safe to say that pensioners in Hungary are financing the budget, it is practically pre-empting. It's a shame and a shame that you're using the most defenseless two and a half million people to finance the otherwise colossal public finances! Thank you for your patience.
u2023-06-15-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to inform you that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has renounced its further timeframe in the debate for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I ask the technical staff to reschedule the time frame accordingly. Thank you very much. I would like to address Mr László Varju from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-15-71	Thank you very much. I do not consider it my calling to influence the position or state of mind of my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, but in any case I would like to add a few sentences. If Fidesz, the internationalist endeavour of KDNP, is to deliver Hungary to Russia, buy gas dearly from them, and otherwise represent Russia's interests as an undercover agent in the European Union, which, by the way, is already being thought of around the world, it has evolved to the point of doubting your reliability, if you were really talking about protection, you wouldn't do that. Take care of one thing next week: Sweden's accession to NATO will be voted. Do not talk about what you are spending on protection, but talk about what is the greatest security for Hungary, namely the international community and not the delivery to Russia, as you do. In this case, in this sense, EU funds fall into the same category as you claim to prevent something else from happening to you. But I have to say, with respect, and I say this to Mr Secretary of State, because in this sense he has been given the opportunity to express his final thoughts that the European Union has been available for two years to use this economy for Hungary. These two years you've wasted. In two years, they have been unable to resolve Hungary's ability to define conditions and circumstances in line with the European values that we ourselves represent. Instead, I think it is clear today for some reason, whether I look at your minister, your fellow minister, your fellow government, yes, you have given up this European commitment. You have already taken roads that have, by the way, been typical for the last two years, of looking for roads outside the European Union and of doing financing solutions that Hungary has no interest in. Secretary of State, explain to me what the reason is and why it is in our interest to make a commitment of $4 billion at very high interest rates. Just so that, by the way, this power that you now possess is preserved, instead of using the otherwise much more favourable resources? Moreover, if I can still refer back to who it was or what it was that clearly required Hungary not to receive it in terms of the use and use of European Union funds, it was Fidesz, fellow members of the Government. It was Viktor Orbán who demanded it after 2006, he was the only one who specifically called on the European Union not to provide these funds in order to harm Hungary. I am not talking about their former betrayal when they left and reported Hungary only in order to harm Hungary even during the accession period. So in that sense, dear Congressman Nacsa, stop lying and tell me honestly what you've done here in the past time. This category includes, of course, the part where, as I expect the Secretary of State to talk about their idea of resolving the losses of the Hungarian National Bank, they should not be silent, because the HUF 2000 billion they owe in this area must be shown to you in the budget. That's what I'm saying, because if I've said this year in recent months, I've had the opportunity to transfer HUF 75 billion to the University of Tokaj-Hegyalja, and by the way, 38 students and 40 teachers, but they haven't been able to find university instructors there yet, and they have to ensure that they can invest in government bonds, and then you pay interest, so I think it's unacceptable. Overall, I think that this budget is not in Hungary's interest, so I would like to ask you to accept and support the proposals of the shadow government, which we have tabled in its amendment form, that we are proposing an alternative budget for the increase in wages against your price budget. Do something for the Hungarian people! Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]] [[13.40]]
u2023-06-15-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, in the context of the closing, I am going to focus on a number of things, but I did not want to burden the closing words with the ideas that I felt after Mr Varju's comment, so I have to say this now. On which we agree, Mr President, the representation of European values is important. And, Congressman, you have said that you represent European values. If by this representation of European values we mean, for example, how we are debating a question, then perhaps we can also agree that it is not appropriate to talk about a system, treason and Taigetos that has been fascinated between the walls of the Parliament in a professional debate, such as the signs and the words on the budget. So please, in a European way, which in this case means that we should debate these issues in a civilised way, if I may make such a request. As far as the content is concerned, on the one hand, the reimbursement of the loss of the central bank. This is the second time that the Member has mentioned this to us today. Minister Mihály Varga in the Expo clearly said that this is an issue that needs to be addressed during the parliamentary hearing. The Parliament will be held in the first place at the plenary session, in the second round at committee meetings, and then the final vote will take place on 7 July as originally planned. Why did we put it that way, and why should this issue be addressed? On the one hand, under Covid, all EU countries have increased public deficits and public debt to explicitly encourage the European Commission in order to protect and protect the economy in the context of so-called countercyclical economic policy. Thus, when there is a market downturn, the State must enter by generating demand, the Hungarian government did so, with tax reductions and the launch of investment programmes. I think that this has resulted, because we have managed to maintain the extremely high level of employment, but then most European countries have started to reduce their debt, and Hungary has also done so: from 2021 to 2022, the debt ratio has fallen substantially, and we hope that by the end of this year it will fall below the level of 70% of GDP. Why do I start with that? Because it is currently a challenge for everyone to reduce deficit and debt levels. Yes, but after the war the level of inflation rose, which required strict monetary policy measures in many countries of Europe, and this has resulted in losses everywhere, not only in Hungary, but also in central bank losses. We therefore face two processes: on the one hand, the need for fiscal stabilisation, the stabilisation that Hungary is implementing, because after 2020, we reduced the level of deficit from 2021 to 2022, we reduced the level of debt ratio and deficit in the election year, this is our plan for this year as well, and we want to continue in 2024; on the other hand, in this deficit reduction, the loss compensation needs of the central bank appear. I repeat: it is not a Hungarian specialty, we see in many places in Europe that just when the deficit needs to be reduced, when expenditure needs to be reduced, the loss compensation needs of central banks are raised. We see that there are different rules in Europe. There are countries where there is no obligation to pay back from the central budget, and there is a country where a year's loss is practically fully reimbursed in the next year, so there is a wide choice here. Of course, it is necessary to act on the rules in force, but this regulation can be amended if a particular government, a given Parliament, initiates this and, of course, if the competent bodies of the European Union agree. So I repeat: we are faced with a problem that is not a Hungarian specialty, it is everywhere in Europe, and among the solutions we see an example where there is no obligation at all to compensate for losses, and also that a year's loss can be faced with future profits at the central bank. So this is the issue that must also be considered in the European context, in the light of the practices of other European countries, and which, as I said, Minister Mihály Varga mentioned in the expozee, and which we ourselves, the government and the central bank, are also dealing with. As for the numbers, I have to clarify Congressman Varju. The Budget Council also spoke about the loss compensation for the central bank, President László Windisch, President of the State Audit Office, and the document of the State Audit Office contains information on this. According to the rules in force, the value of the negative equity capital resulting from the loss of the central bank must be reimbursed to the budget in five years on the basis of the rules in force. This is nearly HUF 2000 billion, which Mr President mentioned, but one fifth of this year's loss, I repeat, of negative equity capital. According to current estimates, this was projected by the Fiscal Council to 0.5 per cent of GDP, so it is 400 billion forints in scale, but again, we do not know exactly how much the loss of the central bank will be this year, since the central bank is not focused on its results, it must focus on this, but on the fight against inflation. I think that that is why the results of the Bank's steps are visible, and also the results of government action. The exchange rate has been mentioned by many; the exchange rate is particularly strong, the exchange rate of the forint is particularly strong, let's say, in the light of the past six months, three quarters of the year. So I think we should focus on breaking inflation, and one of the side effects of breaking inflation is indeed a loss of central banks, not only in Europe, but also elsewhere in the world. I think that next year's budget, together with this still open question, should focus on, no matter what the extent of the loss of central bank, trying to bring the deficit-to-GDP down to below 3 per cent, and reducing the debt ratio, as this is in the common economic interest of all of us, this is what the draft budget for next year is all about. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask my fellow Members that, taking into account the limits given by the remaining timeframes, someone still wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. Now I ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if you would like to make a closing statement. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Yeah, he wants to say it. There you go. You have the floor. The time frame is 30 minutes.
u2023-06-15-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, First of all, allow me to thank you for the work you have done during the last two and a half days of the budget law proposal for 2024. With a view to planning, the Parliament will discuss the next year's draft budget law again before the end of the summer. In the last two and a half days, this fact has also been severely criticised; opinions have been expressed that have supported this nine-year-old government practice and there have been opinions that have expressed criticism. I think there can be agreement between us that in the shadow of war, in addition to war, the unpredictability of the economic environment is greater than in a stable period, there is now greater uncertainty than it was three to four years ago. At the same time, due to the war, the prolonged war, we also need to see that this war will certainly not end in a week or two, within a month or two. Therefore, we must also see that if the draft budget law were to be debated in the autumn, it is possible that this unpredictability might not be less because of the war. At the same time, the advantage of early budgetary negotiations, I think, is undoubtedly there, that economic operators, families, can learn the direction of government economic policy much earlier than the beginning of the fiscal year. [[13.50]] This refers to a change in tax rules, which applies to the programmes that the government intends to carry out in 2024. I therefore think that there are risks that are likely to remain with us in a few months' time. These risks can be addressed partly with budgetary reserves and partly with active governance. The early budget has its advantages. I think that, considering the benefits and risks, it is necessary for Parliament to make a decision when adopting the budget. The 2024 budget, as an early budget, sets a clear direction on what economic policy we intend to pursue and what are the main values and considerations that can determine the economic processes of next year. This is the clear direction of defense. The budget of 2024 is therefore called a defence budget, because in times of war, we need a budget that guarantees the security of our country, protects families, pensions, jobs and reduced overhead. Next year, the main task will be to protect and maintain the results achieved previously, as well as financial stability and budgetary discipline. These are difficult times. I have mentioned many times that analysts in Germany, for example, who are independent of the government there, expect an economic downturn this year. We see economic processes that characterize Europe, whether it be less economic performance or high inflation. The value expressed in such a period is that we can protect the economic results achieved and, in addition, strengthen the country's physical security in the shadow of war. It follows, therefore, that next year's draft budget law intends to provide the necessary resources for the country's physical security. On the economic line, the aim is to maintain the public health system, to maintain the family support system, and to provide financial support for childbearing. The aim is to protect almost total employment achieved and to support further job creation, and, of course, the aim remains to protect the purchasing power of pensions, including the provision of a 13th month pension, and, if economic performance permits, to pay a pension premium. In addition to these objectives, next year's draft budget law will also support longer-term economic growth, since basically we want to provide a basis for longer-term economic growth with budget support for private investment, funding for innovation and increasing funding for higher education. It is important that, in addition to these objectives, the budget contains substantial higher resources in 2024 than in 2023 in the educational and health field, which is often mentioned, but in many areas public sector workers can also expect wage increases. Allow me to say a few words about the reduction of costs within these objectives. Inflation is one of the biggest challenges not only in Hungary but everywhere in Europe. In order to reduce inflation, we will continue to count on the Renewal Fund next year in order to keep the household expenditures at a low level. This amount exceeds HUF 1300 billion. It is hardly possible, according to the indications in the debate, to classify it as a family-skinning or austerity budget, which relieves families, public, civil, municipal and ecclesiastical organisations from the payment of such an amount. No one has contested the substantial increase in defence expenditure, but at the most there was disagreement in its assessment. In the budget proposal for 2024 the Defence Fund is indeed strengthened, with a budget of around HUF 1310 billion in 2024 and total defence expenditure in the Ministry of Defence may exceed 2 percent of GDP. This is certainly fully justified and made of prime importance by the war that is taking place next door to us. Most speakers agreed that the strategic objective was to increase support for families in order to increase the number of births. Some of the speakers from the opposition benches also made comments and suggestions with a positive intention. At the same time, we must also see that we are already maintaining the most extensive family support system in Europe. Some elements of this system and its internal rates will change for the future, so that the home renovation programme has ceased as of the end of 2021, but more resources are available in other areas, such as the amount of preschool or nursery funding, as well as the expenditure on baby-var credit, where part of the interest rate subsidies on the growing loan pool, and part of the expenditure on loan release in connection with the birth of children committed. There are, therefore, family policy measures where budgetary support may increase even if the scheme is unchanged next year. Overall, we spend more than HUF 3300 billion on family policy programmes, as has been said in the debate, I repeat, this is an outstanding sum of around 4 per cent of GDP at European level. Despite the slowdown in economic growth seen at European level, there are no negative trends in employment in 2023. According to our hopes and external analysts, we can defend this result in 2024 through economic policy, as set out in the draft budget, with the start of economic growth. The draft budget calculates a 4% increase, which several of the speakers considered unfounded and referred to the Fiscal Council in this regard. Indeed, the government projections are in the upper range of growth expectations expected by analytical institutions, but they are not unprecedented, so it cannot be said that the macroeconomic basis of the draft budget is out of reality. In this respect, it should be stated that the Fiscal Council has identified certain risks, such as the inability to achieve growth expectations, that the draft budget law of 2024 complies with the government debt rule provided for in the Fundamental Law and is in line with the objective of reducing the budget deficit to below 3 per cent. In addition to saving, a high level of investment and development that increases economic growth potential will be maintained in 2024, which is a guarantee of a high level of employment in the medium term. These expenditures have been extremely high in European comparison in recent years. A significant increase in funding for higher education could support growth and high value added production in the longer term. There has also been strong criticism from several Members about the support to foreign companies introducing the latest technology and the model change in higher education. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. András Aradski.]] In our view, however, the strong international competition in this area requires budgetary engagement, precisely in order to maintain this high level of employment and maintain our economic growth at a high level. On the opposition side, it is also important for topics such as climate change, renewable energy production and network development, public transport, agriculture and water utilities to design significant development resources, partly from European Union sources. In order to achieve such improvements, we are therefore obviously counting on EU aid, which, under the relevant legislation, clearly deserve our country and which the government is doing its best to obtain. [[In the notary seat, Dr. Ágnes Vadai is replaced by Sándor Szabó.]] There have been views in the debate that the government does not act that way. It has been said that the government is working to keep EU funds away. Of course, this is not in the interest of the government. In my opinion, such a position contradicts common sense and political logic. The budget will continue to ensure its commitment to pensioners, i.e. to ensure that the real value of benefits is maintained. We provide 465 billion HUF more resources for pensions. Re-enhancing growth is an opportunity to pay the pension premium, as we hope. To this end, the budget proposal has allocated the resources. Of course, we are also counting on the payment of the 13th month's pension. Overall, the 20 per cent increase in the real value of pensions seen since 2010 could continue in 2024 and, again, in the light of economic performance, hopefully, it will also be possible to pay the pension premium above that. [[14.00]] I would like to emphasise that, in addition to the priority areas, there are substantial surpluses in family support, high levels of employment, public health, pensioners in other areas. I mentioned the education, with HUF 629 billion and health care, where you have more than HUF 424 billion in the next year's budget bill than the number 2023. I have always said, in all my comments, and I also think that we have a number of tasks in health and education, but I cannot accept the comment that the government withdraws money from the health sector or education. This statement has been made on numerous occasions by the opposition, but this is not factually true. In the combination of 2023 and 24 and in the comparison between 2010 and 2024, it is true that not only nominally, but also adjusted for inflation, support for these sectors will grow in real terms. There have been comments that have missed or lacked resources to raise the wages of people working in the budgetary sphere. In fact, I can tell the Honourable Parliament that next year's draft includes a surplus of HUF 830 billion to raise the wages of public sector employees compared to 2023. This includes wage increases in the education sector, health wage increases, law enforcement, defence and wage increases for some government officials. We are working to ensure that all economic growth that has marked Hungary in the previous decade will also be typical since 2024 and that, if this economic growth is achieved, there will be opportunities for wage increases in other areas. There were many words about the local government sector, not just today, but the previous two days. Several times the term "bleeding out of municipalities" has been said. I think that if we take forward next year's draft budget law, on the one hand, we can see from the figures that budget direct subsidies will increase by 80 billion, and on the other hand, economic growth of around 4 per cent could result in an additional revenue of nearly HUF 190 billion for municipalities. Overall, therefore, the financial situation of the municipalities can improve next year, according to our current calculations. As far as the current situation is concerned, I have to say that, compared to the last year of peace before the war and Covid, the government's amount in commercial bank accounts and sovereign debt was HUF 883 billion, with the exception of the capital, which increased to HUF 999.5 billion by the end of last year. Therefore, despite the difficult period, the municipalities maintained their financial stability and their free resources increased from 2019 to the end of 2022. We hope that this year the performance of the Hungarian economy will be in a positive range, and we hope that next year economic growth will be around 4 percent. This, according to the data, could be a step forward for a municipal system in a stable financial position next year. All these areas, which I have mentioned, are priority areas for the draft budget law. We can see in what sector the government intends to provide additional resources and what expenditure we expect to protect the results so far, but we cannot forget the often mentioned financial discipline and stability. This is in our fundamental interest, since high inflation means higher public debt financing and our legal obligation, because if the performance of the economy is in a positive range, the basic law requires the debt ratio to be reduced. On the basis of these considerations, the deficit planned for next year should be brought below 3 per cent of GDP as proposed by the government. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] We can see how inflation has increased in this way, in this context the cost of financing debt. I repeat: that is why it is essential to maintain budgetary discipline, and that is why I do not recommend that the Parliament support the proposals made in the debate that would upset the stability of the budget. As an example, there has been a radical increase in the share of GDP in certain sectors, a reduction in the VAT rate for energy sources, other VAT reductions, a reduction in personal income tax or additional additional financing of the said sector of local government, which was not covered by the proposals made. All these items in the debate would create a gap in the budget of several thousand billion forints, skyrocketing interest expenditure and endangering the reduction of the debt ratio. It cannot be stressed enough how important it is, in the difficult circumstances caused by war and sanctions, to ensure budgetary stability by preserving financial security for a wide range of families. Therefore, the measures proposed by the Government cannot, in my view, be pronounced by austerity or family skinning, as some opposition speakers have done in the debate. With regard to financial discipline, I have already mentioned a reduction in the debt ratio. The reason why we talk so much about this issue is because, I repeat, Parliament will have to decide later on the amendments tabled by honourable Members during the general debate. These amendments, as we have seen, would in many cases upset the stability of the budget and would make it impossible to reduce the debt contained in next year's draft budget law. It is therefore necessary to preserve the reduction of the debt ratio, but also to preserve the result that we have achieved in debt financing, namely: the financing rate of the Hungarian population in the whole of the public debt, which is currently around 20 percent, and I think that we should welcome the measures that inform the population, the Hungarian families of what possible sovereign debt investments are, whether protected by inflation. In contrast to several opposition contributions, I see that investors and the Hungarian population have confidence in Hungarian economic policy. This is well demonstrated by the fact that in the last 12 months nearly a thousand billion HUF of government debt has been recorded by Hungarian families, so there is constant confidence in Hungarian sovereign debt. Dear House, Before submitting the draft budget law, the government sent the bill to the Fiscal Council for an opinion. In the opinion of the Council, President Árpád Kovács said at the beginning of the debate that the bill was in line with the provisions of the Fundamental Law, and that the reduction of this sovereign debt indicator could be achieved. The State Audit Office also carried out its audit, President László Windisch also expressed his opinion, and Mr President also felt that the proposal for a budget law was well founded, making the achievement of the objectives set realistic. On this basis, and on the basis of what has been said in the debate, I would ask honourable Members to hold a responsible debate on the amendments tabled, to discuss the content of these proposals and any subsequent Commission proposals, but not to risk the basic character of the budget, the defence budget, because it is in our fundamental interest. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-15-76	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I declare that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. I would like to inform you that the committees will discuss the amendments next week. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2024 will follow until its closure. The government referral is T/4254. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please. [[14.10]]
u2023-06-15-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Honourable Members, The general debate on next year's draft budget law has just been concluded, and I would like to mention once again this bill to preserve the security of our country, to preserve the values of families, pensions, jobs and the reduction of the rent. The bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2024 is also linked on several points to these objectives, strengthening defence, supporting families and providing budgetary resources for these purposes. Previously, the outbreak of a coronal virus epidemic and then the Russian-Ukrainian war and the Brussels sanctions policy have also led to an unprecedented economic situation throughout Europe, including in our country. In this exceptional economic situation, the aim of the national government remains to follow a sovereign, value-based economic policy, which also serves the interests of Hungarian families and Hungary. Dear House, The aim of the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2024 is parallel. The legislative and regulatory framework which is directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of Hungary's central fiscal law in 2024 should be established. The bill before you contains amendments to 55 laws, of which I would like to point out amendments to the law on public finances, social security and several national defence matters to achieve our objectives. First of all, please allow me to tell you, before presenting the main proposals for amendments, that it is important for us to have the stability of the country's operation and the planning of farming, and therefore, according to the practice introduced nine years ago, if the bill is supported, some of the amendments may be published nearly six months before their entry into force. The government will thus provide sufficient time to prepare for the changes to be made in the financial, economic and regulatory environment. This means planning and predictability for all economic operators. In addition, balanced, disciplined budgetary management continues to be the basis for the Hungarian government and the aim remains to operate a simpler, more flexible public finance system. In order to ensure that the Hungarian economy can continue to respond to economic challenges in a timely and effective manner, the bill affects on several points certain provisions of the Public Finance Act and the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary. Honourable Members, The purpose of the amendments to the Public Finance Act is to send a clear message. According to the bill before you, the organizations responsible for managing domestic budget funds will be obliged to keep their accounts in the Treasury and to pay public funds from there. This will also serve the transparency of public resources, the protection of the budget, and will further strengthen it. With further amendments to the general government rule system, we also confirm that aid from domestic sources or so-called de minimis aid can only be properly paid if it is registered in the so-called National Aid Control System, which is already in operation. This amendment serves a more effective internal control of public finances and helps to measure the utilisation of subsidies. This system is an IT system operated by the Hungarian State Treasury, which records the payment of subsidies from different sources, but for the same purpose, so that it can be better controlled when, from what source and in what schedule we support a target from public sources. It is also necessary, as part of the law for the functioning of public finances, to highlight in particular the changes to the scope of the governing bodies of the chapters under the government's control. The new rules on transfers can be implemented at the same time as the Minister for Public Finance. In order to apply the principle of balanced budgetary management, the Minister of Finance will object to these movements at the government meeting in the future if this is justified by the protection of the central budget. However, the amendment does not mean that resources for family support, individual benefits or even EU funding can be reduced. The point of the amendment is, therefore, that in the budgetary bodies managed by the government, such as a ministry, if savings are made on an appropriation, the Minister responsible for that budget resource may transfer it for another purpose. The Minister of Finance, if he does not agree with this, may lodge an objection at the meeting of the Government. This transfer shall not apply to those family allowances or appropriations containing those EU funds. With the amendment of the general government rule system, the scope of defence will also be broadened when it comes to the conclusion of contracts for the protection of our country, the purchase of military equipment. We will therefore make further simplification proposals by amending a number of laws governing the protection of homes. Each of these amendments is intended to protect the budget and its implementation and includes simplifications for security personnel. It will therefore be easier to conclude longer term defence contracts, of course within budgetary limits. Dear House, As is well known to you, the revision of the Hungarian pension system is part of the so-called Restoration and Resistance Plan, to be financed by European Union funds. It is not about money, but about the fact that the European Commission has asked in return for the use of the European Union to review the functioning of the Hungarian pension system. This requirement was therefore imposed by the Commission in order for Hungary to have access to EU funds. For this reason, several amendments to the bill before you also serve to transpose the practice of the European Court of Justice, to reduce administrative burdens and to clarify them. Allow me to inform you that the first so-called milestone for the pension insurance system will be completed at the end of 2023 by an independent international expert to publish his report on the Hungarian pension system, which is currently being prepared. Based on the findings and proposals contained in this expert report, consultation with social and economic partners on what changes need to be made in the Hungarian pension system can begin. The revision of the content issues should be the method of pension increases or parts of the calculation only in a complex way, considering the interaction of the individual elements, may take place in the context of that review in a system view, and, of course, in this important, serious matter, Parliament must decide on any matter of any nature. Dear House, In the bill before you, in addition to the protection of pensions, we are also proposing amendments to make healthcare more effective. In order to improve the quality of healthcare for Hungarian people, system-wide interventions will also be carried out to improve the efficiency of the operation of public hospitals as part of the improvement of the functioning of the healthcare system. As already mentioned in the budget debate, the management of real estate will be performed by the Directorate-General for Public Procurement and Supply from 1 July 2023, at the first stage by the metropolitan health institutions maintained by the National Hospital Directorate-General, at the second stage, from 1 January 2024 among rural health institutions. Therefore, the responsibility of the health government will cover policy issues, and the tasks related to the operation, guarding, protection and maintenance of buildings, hospitals will be transferred to a body that is still dealing with this, DG Procurement and Supply. With this, we hope to improve the performance of operation and operation tasks, the efficiency and quality of this. From November 1, 2023, the site of Gusztáv Merényi, the National Institute of Hematology and Infectology of Southern Pest Centrum Hospital will be integrated into the Clinical Centre of Semmelweis University for the purpose of rapid and professional accident surgery. The restructuring will provide a comprehensive, multidisciplinary environment for traumatic care, and experts with extensive experience in traumatic patient care will cooperate with staff with a scientific qualification in this field of the university. [[14.20]] I think, therefore, this is also an organizational change aimed at increasing the quality of health care, and for which I think that, without belonging to a faction, we can all agree. This can lead to the rapid transposition of the latest international patient care practice in Hungary and to an increase in the level of professional activity. Dear Parliament, I mentioned systemic intervention to improve the efficiency of the operation of hospitals, and I should therefore also highlight the amendment of the State Property Act in order to ensure cost-effective and uniform asset management and a centralised public asset sale strategy. The Government's aim is to create a set of conditions to facilitate the effective sale of assets not directly serving the task. The new provision allowing for the simplification and acceleration of the sales process allows the Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets to designate certain properties for sale in his regulation on the aspects of efficient asset management. This means only real estate owned by the State and controlled or supervised by the Government, which is managed by a central government body, the sale of which is justified taking into account the cost-effective provision of public tasks. Thus, the real estate used by the State will, of course, remain state-owned, but the exploitation of unused property, including sales, will be simplified as proposed. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary continues to have a key objective of reducing the administrative burden on local authorities, while ensuring the transparency of their responsible management of public funds. In order to achieve these headline targets, the bill before you also concerns the provision of information to the municipal sub-sector of public finances. The proposal pays attention to the fact that, at present, municipalities may apply for a loan authorisation after so-called prior reporting. The proposal removes this prior reporting obligation by making requests for authorisation of debt-generating transactions available from the beginning of the year following the adoption of the municipal Financial Regulation. This will make the procedure simpler and faster. It is also intended to strengthen the uniform criteria for the assessment of applications by a proposal for amendment which provides for the possibility of taking into account assessment criteria similar to those of the municipalities in the assessment of business transactions. As a whole, we want to preserve the financial stability of the municipal system, the municipalities cannot be indebted to the area of operation, they can borrow for development and investment purposes if they have a government licence in this respect. The proposal simplifies this procedure, while applying to municipalities the current legislation in force, it is proposed to extend it to local government-owned companies, for companies where government licences are required for development-type loans and bond issuance. Honourable Members, The bill before you affects the rules on justice and public administration on several points. These amendments shall ensure, inter alia, that the special procedure introduced in connection with the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which provides for a shorter period of administration than the general administrative time limits, can be applied by the end of 2023. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, many of the provisions of the bill before Parliament form a close or indirect unity with the bill on Hungary's central budget in 2024. The individual amendments and regulatory clarifications aim to substantially strengthen the framework for the responsible and effective implementation of next year's budget, bearing in mind the rules on the use of state resources. Therefore, please discuss the bill and support it later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I declare that the presentation will be discussed as a minority and EU agenda item by the Parliament. I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on the proposal in a four-hour 40-minute time frame. I would like to ask Mr Sándor Szabó to explain the time frame.
u2023-06-15-79	Dear Parliament, The time frame of 4 hours and 40 minutes is divided into 95 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 45 minutes for the KDNP Group; 27 minutes for the DK Group; 21 minutes for the Momentum Group; 21 minutes for the MSZP Group; 19 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 17 minutes for the Group of Hungary; 17 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 15 minutes for the LMP Group; 3 minutes for the independent Members. A 20-minute time-frame is available for the voice of the representative or advocate of nationality, as well as for further representatives and advocates of nationalities, which does not include the time-frame of the debate.
u2023-06-15-80	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that if a representative of the EP came forward through the head of the parliamentary group, his speech will be included in the speaking time frame of the group which announced him as a speaker. Where he has made a direct application, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-15-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The legislative amendment package on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2024 contains amendments to some 55 laws. These amendments can be found in the budget plan for 2024 and I would therefore not like to mention them in full, but I would like to highlight a few elements, although I have already been outlined by the Secretary of State and presented them perfectly. First of all, the 1997 LXXXI on social security pensions. I would like to draw attention to some of the elements of the amendment to Law No 1. The practice of the European Court of Justice is being transposed when we recognise as periods of service in terms of entitlement to retirement benefits the insurance periods completed under this legislative amendment in the social security system of international organisations in the European Union and are transposed in accordance with Hungarian legislation. I would like to point out that the 1998 LXXXIV on support for families. The amendment of the Act allows the State guarantee for the baby shower loan. This applies to loan contracts concluded after 31 December 2022. Accordingly, the construction allows for the extended demand option to be modified until the end of 2024. This support is adapted to the legislative package. I would particularly like to highlight the 2011 CXCIV on Hungary's economic stability. The elements concerning the amendment of law, highlighting in particular the reduction and assistance of the so-called prior reporting obligations of local authorities. In this way, we want to reduce the administrative burden of borrowing investment and development loans that do not threaten the functioning of municipalities financially. With the end of the reporting process, it will be possible for municipalities to create investment and development loans and development elements much faster than from the beginning of the fiscal year. [[14.30]] With this regulation, supported by the municipal budget regulation, it is possible to create faster development rates. In particular, I would like to highlight the Labour Code, Act I of 2012, CXIV of 2018 on Defence Staff. Law 1 and the 2012 CCV on the status of military defenders. The possibility of amending the law, that the employer's obligation to issue the M30 tax certificate by the end of January, should be accompanied by a contribution certificate to those employed in defence. By doing so, we would like to strengthen the status of the Hungarian Defence Forces and speed up the various statements and opportunities made on the protection of the country. I would like to highlight the amendment of the regulation of the Community greenhouse gas trading system, which will enable the legal conditionalities applied in the European Union to be transposed and help to account for this system. CXXX of 2016 on the Civil Procedure. We are amending the law in which we speed up decisions on minor children in the case of legal proceedings relating to the status of a person, and we are trying to speed up and facilitate its administration system. The 1999 XLIII on cemeteries and funerals is also amended. Law 13, according to which a 2013 amendment lays down rules on burial and burial accounts; they do not continue to apply, the further entry into force will be postponed again. This is particularly the case for municipalities maintaining cemeteries. LIX of 2022 on certain laws relating to higher education, vocational training and adult education is also amended. The entry into force of certain sections of Act No 1 under which the basic part of employment will continue to be possible only for employment policy purposes, in accordance with the current rules. Hungary's central budget for 2024 already contains these elements, and these 55 legislative amendments are certainly the basis for its creation, so I ask this House, my fellow Members, to support this legislative amendment package and to accept the full legislative amendment after the debate. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-15-83	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. In the introduction, we heard in Mr. Secretary of State's exposé that it is a minor and major amendment to 55 laws, so it is worth considering these laws and drawing attention to what is actually happening when they propose the operation of the internal abuse notification system, which deals with counting the period of service or the sale of state assets, and also make proposals on the internal structure of public finances. So, let's start by taking more of this into consideration what's really going on. Thus, by amending the Act on National Property, the Minister for State Property now has the power of the Minister for Economic Development of Márton Nagy to extend not only the assets in the portfolio of the Hungarian National Asset Manager, but essentially the assets existing in all ministries, so he can sell virtually anything, anywhere, if I understand this correctly. One of the spectacular elements of this, for example, has already appeared today, and quite precisely today, I have been confronted with this situation, that while the local government, the people of Újpest, is striving to provide health care for more than 200,000 people with hospital renewals, the former hospital in Újpest has been announced for sale, and Mr.Márton Nagy has already taken action. While you have an answer regarding the launch of the hospital, it is currently included in the budget as an amendment, the municipality has agreed with the Ministry, the municipality has prepared plans for this, and now the Minister has decided that what he sees is actually being sold out. In addition to its uniqueness in Újpest, is it also necessary to sell what it sees? Are you in so much trouble, Mr. Secretary of State, public finances? The advertising of the purchase of government bonds should not only be advertised in the CRETA then, but everything that can and must be sold at the same time. Now, that's why this effort is interesting and this is the story of the fundraising operation, in which they give you another opportunity to expand. Such is the case when, by significantly broadening the Public Finance Act, among the chapters under the government's control, the bodies managing this chapter are given the opportunity to carry out transfers from expenditure appropriations in the chapter or chapters they manage. Now, that is what puts Parliament's budget debate in parentheses, because the difference between us is what you say there was no amending budget, and I say that the budget has been amended 95 times. The Minister of State's reply is that it is not a budgetary amendment, but a transfer which was previously authorised by the law. Dear Secretary of State, Since there are also differences of magnitude in the totals, which, I think, has a significant impact on the matter; moreover, we know precisely that the adoption of the state budget alone is not only about spending money in some area, but also about choosing value to spend it in that area. See, for example, an increase in the family allowance in our proposals, if you would otherwise deal with this, not only with the privileged, with special support for those with the upper potential, but also with all children, as we say. Thus, the elimination of parliamentary control in this respect will be very effective and will continue and thus provide further opportunities for ministries. The amendment to submit a request for loans from local governments can also be interpreted as the Secretary of State says, and can also be read in such a way that a reduction in administration actually serves the purpose of making it simpler and faster, I say this to you not being sympathetic to local authorities, because unfortunately, this is what we need to see in recent times. [[14.40]] Another area has been found to find further reduction in municipal operations or municipal opportunities, and in this sense they want to solve it faster and easier. In fact, most of the bill does not base the budget, but, hidden in the salad law, there are some proposals to try to include additional resources for filling the expected budget holes and to further reduce the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities, as I have said. Therefore, we do not agree with these; it gives us the opportunity to restrict the sovereignty of the local government in a new way. As regards the provision of compulsory health insurance, it is proposed that, as of 1 July 2023, the Directorate-General for Public Procurement and Supply will perform certain real estate management tasks of the health institutions in the capital. As I understand it, Mr. Secretary of State has also referred to this part, on which I must point out once again that another centralization is that a ministry, I might say, would take control of Rogán Antal, and that he will be the operator of these properties, the operator of the real estate operation, he will be the one who manages the procurements. A new business solution has been found on where and in what way you can create a situation where resources are centrally regulated and used to attract decisions. I understand in Mr State Secretary's reading that, by the way, professional management will remain there, but in itself I believe that it will be possible to do so. Well, I certainly wanted to mention this part. It could also be addressed in detail as regards the municipalities, because we discussed the way in which they are doing this throughout the state budget. But I would like to emphasise one more thing once again, according to which the bill clarifies that, in contrast to the one-off regrouping of appropriations, the permanent transfer of appropriations means that the budget will be included in appropriations beyond the year. Let's see what else is to be highlighted. I think it's the opportunities for the National Health and Medical Foundation. The bill does this to the University of Semmelweis regarding the tasks of traumatic walking and inpatient care and related property and effects of the Department of Haematology and Infektology of the National Institute of Hematology and Infektology of the South-Pest Hospital. This may be correct, but this law also provides for the transfer of new real estate, such as the VIIIth. Parking in the district, the building of the former Radio, if I understand it correctly, will again be given in a church donation that will make the bishop's church think about how to make the best use of them. In fact, if I understand correctly, the funds needed for the renovation are also provided by the budget, and the parking fee can then be transferred directly to the Bishop's Faculty. In view of all this, which concerns the limitation of municipal rights, which includes the fact that it concerns a further withdrawal of Parliament's powers, functioning and control rights when the budgetary opportunity, the transferability is dealt with in this way, we cannot support this law, because this law rather supports that, in certain elements of the law, when it acts in a prodigal way, inflation will increase even more, it will create additional burdens for entrepreneurs, and the shadow government will definitely take action against it. I wanted to express this and reject the adoption of the law in this sense. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-15-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm sure Congressman Varju knows the joke that he's wearing a hat, he's not wearing a hat. If the deadlines are shortened, they say that the problem with him is that it can be rejected quickly if the deadlines are extended, then the problem with him is that there is a long administration. You can't really live up to it, nothing's good, but we already know that. I have one more comment on your speech. When you talk about the fact that family support can only be used by some upper class, the upper class of society, I would like to refer you to the institution of family tax relief, in which more than 97 percent of those involved can participate. There are 4.7 million people working in Hungary, not everyone has children, of course, or children of that age, but the width of the family tax allowance for those who work is one of the most effective family support systems. I understand that it is not one of your favorites, because before 2010, you paid 12 billion forints for family tax relief, and we have over 1000 billion forints, which you paid for family tax relief, which will reach the working parents who can help raise their children much more widely. The bill before us contains the necessary legislative amendments to lay the foundations of the bill on the central budget of 2024, which the Parliament negotiates each year with the budget. This legislative package usually provides for the necessary changes mainly due to changes to the budget, so it is largely a proposal of a legislative and legislative nature. The package of proposals also contains a number of small but administrative amendments that make everyday life easier. For example, an amendment to the Szeged municipality allows the transfer of the farm number between pension insurance management bodies and social child protection and guardianship bodies, thereby making data exchange faster and much simpler. It is necessary to amend a number of health laws because, as of 1 July 2023, the KEF, Directorate-General for Public Procurement and Supply, performs certain real estate management tasks of the health institutions in the capital. As a result of the amendment, the asset management rights of the assets of the healthcare institutions concerned, used for technical operation, are transferred to the KEF, while the exercise of ownership rights is transferred to the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. for the sake of uniform asset management. One amendment allows the State guarantee for the baby shower loan to be applied to loans concluded after 31 December 2022. The employer shall issue a tax certificate for the income for the year concerned to the employees by 31 January following 31 January of the year, the M30 tax certificate known to everyone and the certificate of compliance with the social security obligations. This was previously to be sent on paper, in person or by post, and must be signed by the employee as proof of receipt, thereby demonstrating that the employer issued it and that the employee took over the M30 tax and contribution certificate. However, with this amendment, it will also be possible to provide the certificate in electronic form in the future. With this step, employers will be given a new reduction in the administrative burden, saving time, money and energy, not to mention the environmental burden associated with printing a lot of unnecessary paper. The National Assembly is the 16th of 2020. By adopting a law, Pázmány Péter decided to invest in Pollack Mihály Square in order to promote educational tasks performed by the Catholic University of Pázmány. The purpose of this amendment is to change the deadline for the granting of the state-owned underground garage under Pollack Mihály tér to the Hungarian Catholic Bishop's Conference from 31 March 2026 to 30 June 2025 in order to ensure that the legal status of the investment sites is uniform. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The amendment of the Act also provides for the transfer of traumatic walking and inpatient care and related property, movables and human resources to the University of Semmelweis. [[14.50]] I have highlighted the details, but the bill contains a number of additional amendments, typically related to the budget, for the application of the law, and the KDNP fraction will therefore support the bill for the basis of the budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When I put the microphone on, I'll tell you more because it's not...
u2023-06-15-88	Yeah, go ahead, Congressman, we'll count the time, we'll reset the clock. Thank you.
u2023-06-15-89	I promise I won't abuse this, Mr. President. Thank you again for the floor.
u2023-06-15-90	You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-91	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to comment on all 55 laws, which are clearly closely linked to the budget, but rather to social, pension-like laws. Indeed, the salad law on which the budget is based concerns a number of measures in the social field, but it is actually less possible to say that they would be such substantial interventions; in many cases, it is more apparent from these amendments that somehow, in some way, there is a smudge of cases. Well, here is, for example, the amendment of the social law, in which they give the government the power to determine the amount of the social projection fund in a regulation. This is the social projection fund, isn't it, the concept that was invented instead of the minimum pension, and when we take into account the basis for setting social benefits, we have taken this into account since January. Of course, this raises the question of why the minimum pension was renamed if neither this nor the amount of either is increased, because we see and know that the minimum pension has been 28 500 forints since 2008. In the 15 years that has passed, this has, of course, lost a great deal of its value, but we can still say that inflation is still above 20 percent. On the other hand, at the end of last year, they didn't think to include this authority in the law, but the government decided this year's amount in a decree, which, as I said, was the same as it was last year. Obviously, if they feel the same way, they are governed by regulations, if they feel like it, then they obviously bring certain matters to Parliament, but most of the time they do, or it seems, that they love that regulation in the first place. And it's sad that we still don't know how big this social screening fund will be next year. We can only conclude that after 16 years it will probably not change, so it will remain 28 500 forints. Then there is the amendment of the pension law, which changes the pension benefits, the exact date when they can be determined, and the year before and the year-on-year increase that will have to be taken into account. On the one hand, it is not clear, for example, how a later date after the death of a lawyer can be defined as the basis for a widow's pension, and on the other hand, the Constitutional Court recently stated that it is okay for someone to stay out of the increases during the year of retirement, no matter how much inflation will be, and even in answer to our question, the government has not opposed this rule, but now, in the case of family benefits, they are opening up this possibility or I am asking how this can be interpreted. Pensions are also affected by the fact that the bill empowers the government to provide for exceptions in regulations where it is not prohibited to work in the public sector in addition to the use of the pension. Here, too, there is an interesting situation: on the one hand, this has already been regulated before, and on the other hand, it is incomprehensible why the government would insist on this rule, which it had already introduced in 2013. They keep talking about the fact that pensioners can work without paying contributions, neither they nor the employer have to pay public burdens, but they do not allow it in general in the public sector where, by the way, it is perceived that there is a shortage of labour so that pensioners can get their pensions at the same time, for which they have also worked, as they do in the competition sector, and that they can receive both their wages. In fact, the government also knows that this is an unnecessary prohibition in the law, it is not by accident stated in the justification that all of this is necessary to ensure the provision of public tasks, in particular in order to facilitate the fulfilment of the conditions of the statutory or otherwise necessary staff. However, rather than completely abolishing it, they regulate a series of exceptions, which will continue to be extended over the years. Finally, the most absurd issue in the whole bill is the permanent abolition of the social funeral, even its trace being erased from the legislation. Don't take this the wrong way, of course, it is welcome that the government has finally realised that this measure is pointless and that it has completely abandoned this idea, but let us not forget that this idea has been put into law for a long time, and that it has been postponed or at least suspended for more than ten years; at the same time, it is astonishing that they are unable to admit it if they have made a mistake. In fact, they don't describe the social funeral as a concept, because in the explanatory statement the following wording is written:. In order to facilitate the application of the law, non-compliance with the provisions where the entry into force has been postponed several times. Furthermore, the provision concerning the entry into force of the provisions which do not enter into force is repealed. Let's make sure you're thinking about a social funeral. You'll know how to say it with that, won't you? This pointless law that you've made before, the abolition of a social funeral. What would otherwise be expected in such a far-reaching law is that the salad law establishing the budget finally describes how much the social projection fund will be, as I said; how much the pension minimum will be; or how they will actually help families with children, the needy or the disabled, the small pensioners; how they can or how they want to help the social groups mentioned above by increasing the benefits that have been inflated for years; how they can or how they want to help them. Or we would expect them to even modify access to services, to make it even easier for more people to receive social support, whether it be home care, elderly care, and more. Instead, we see a lot of empowering provisions, with circumstantial justifications, which, by the way, I say only once more, primarily in the social field, which is limited to pension issues. I do not want to deal fully with the rest of the law, but it is clear that, after the budget is clearly closely linked to this bill, that the government's treasure chest is empty, and, well, the direction is that, wherever possible, we should try to collect as much money from businesses, individuals, people, whether it is the taxation of savings or indeed, as a parent, I saw it yesterday in the CRETA system, that I can actually help my child by buying him a sovereign debt. I don't think this is the right way. It should be agreed with the European Union that the resources should come as soon as possible and that the country should be set on an economic path that focuses, in particular, not on missed measures, but on the future, on development. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-15-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-15-93	Mr President, Dear House, I tried so hard to reach out to my fellow Member Nacsa with my telepathic waves, because I had a prepared speech, I am always preparing, but I am inspired by what he has said, and this happens a lot in this debate. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to the Secretary of State that he is here after the budget marathon and he is listening to what we are saying, because I very much hope that he will infertilize you. Here, in terms of the system of family support, I think that any extra movement or discount for the baby shower is a good thing, so I am in favour of this part in any case, so if the baby shower support can reach more people, more easily, where appropriate, by making it easier and extending the state guarantee, then I will just welcome this in any case. [[15.00]] However, there are two problems here. I will start with the first one that my fellow Member Nacsa mentioned, and that is the perceived success of family support. The fact is, if we look at demographic indicators, unfortunately, I wish this weren't the case, it wouldn't come back almost anywhere. Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned, forgive me, but I think that there is an incorrect and somewhat incorrect positive shift in demographic data after 2010. We are not discussing the positive shift in itself, but that is what I have been trying to say in Parliament on several occasions, that this process, which the profession calls a replacement, has taken place in every country in the region. The essence of this is that in the post-socialist, ex-communist countries, a very negative demographic legacy has been left behind by the system that we have in the frame of the Bokros package with a gastrically negative demographic wave. The situation in Hungary was extremely bad even compared to the countries of the region in this area, and in other countries the fertility rate increased a little earlier to around 1.5 areas. This happened a little later in our country, which was the first half of 2010. So there is no doubt a positive shift, because we went up to 1.5 to 1.5, that's a very good thing, but I think it's a professional mistake to fill in on the Fidesz family support system, which had good elements, by the way. The only thing we should and could understand together here is that we can spend any amount of GDP on family support the more, the better, we agree on that, but there are other factors in the story. For example, a housing programme, such as a programme for normal wages, which together can produce an impact that more people will remain in Hungary and the number of scissors will decrease between the number of children that are longing for and the number of children that are actually born. That could be our common goal. The reason why I would like to respond to my fellow Member Nacsa in relation to the family allowance and family tax reduction debate is because there are some things that we agree on, but some that we do not. On the opposition side, my colleagues are used to discussing the issue of family allowances. Many times Balliberal parties say that you have to increase the family allowance unconditionally to double, and I say that you have to double your family allowance, no but not unconditionally. Perhaps one or two DK fellow Members would say that I am too paternalist, and what I want to say about the families' lives, about what to spend these increased sums. I'm taking this debate because it's a professional debate. Yes, I would like to limit this increased amount of money to be spent only in a way that is beneficial to the child's interests. And it is likely that when the frozen amount of the family allowance has been fully mentioned by opponents for more than a decade, the idea of the Fidesz MEPs comes, but the family tax relief. The fact is that although the family allowance has been frozen, and inflation has taken about half of its value in recent years, if we look at the amount of family tax benefits, it is around HUF 320 billion on the budget line with a different discount. Mr. Secretary, that's it, isn't it? The family allowance is 307 billion HUF. So 300 neighborhoods, both of them, or 300-something. On the other hand, if I only look at the expected interest burden on the government debt, I will find HUF 3100 billion there. It is worth comparing these data so that we can see that while families receive two hundred billion forints in the form of a discount, ten times the amount of one item is paid only for the interest costs of the public debt. So on the other side, there's a brutal edition. He says the Fidesz must be spending money on the family tax relief system, spending the money from which he didn't raise any family allowances, I suppose. The problem with this, Mr Secretary of State, is that my fellow Member Nacsa said that 90 percent of the working Hungarian people are entitled and can achieve family tax relief, but he did not say what amount. A relatively high salary has to be realised to maximize the amount of family tax benefits, in a nasty way, alive. Otherwise, you would be correct if the door was still open if you brought in the amendment that if someone in the form of a negative tax could not make maximum use of the family tax allowance for one, two or three children, they would receive the maximum difference, whether in the form of a tax credit or by direct allocation. I'm completely open to this, and I can see your budget. I would ask you to consider an absolute reform of a negative tax nature, which is about that if someone cannot use the family tax relief just because they have little salary for it, the Hungarian budget will make up for it. And there is one more problem, Mr Secretary, in the course of the budgetary debate, I have not received an answer, and I would like to ask you to give a little more thought to this, and this is the maximum amount of baby shower, family tax relief and various tax refunds. The fact is that since the introduction, certain forms of support, just like the family allowance, have lost half their value. If you look at the amount of credit for the baby shower, you will see that under the current market conditions, you will probably be worth half of it, as in the introduction. But I also have the same problem with the family tax reduction. There was a time when there was a raise in certain lanes, but perhaps you can confirm that there were years when you didn't. The whole system can serve demographic goals better if it is predictable for years and inflation monitoring is one of the pillars of predictability. If you pay close attention to the pension system, at least in words and it is true that you are trying to meet the desire to follow inflation, then I do not understand why not one of the family support elements. Would it cost a lot? Yeah. Is it worth investing in the Hungarian future? I don't think there's a better investment than that. So I'm interested in the answer to the question of the baby shower in terms of family tax relief, and I could include a few other factors why the maximum amounts do not rise in inflation. I'll give you another example. The VAT on child-rearing articles is EU record, 27 percent. But a health insurance card can be used to buy a variety of children's education articles. Here, with a tax discount of 10 or 20 percent, you can avoid some of the higher VAT, completely legally. But, Mr Secretary, the maximum amount of this tax relief that can be realised annually has been the same since the introduction. Why doesn't it rise every year? Why don't we double it now with a gesture that at least those active workers with child-bearing families who use this design can realize a higher discount, which would compensate them for their VAT-like deposit surplus or at least some of it. I think there's a place for this, and there's a budget. In the package setting up the budget, I would like to talk about one more factor: this is the amendment of the 2015 law on debt settlement for natural persons. They're actually trying to go through a procedural facilitation here, as I understand it, but I just have to talk again about what's not in this package. I remember that, following the financial betrayal of foreign exchange credit, in its process, the Hungarian National Bank, the Financial Supervisory Board and other bodies promised to save the Hungarian victims and debtors by tens of thousands of the construction of family bankruptcy protection. I remember that, although I have to look into a calculation that mentioned 20-40,000 Hungarian citizens to be helped, and we know that the set-up of family bankruptcy protection years too late may have helped a few hundred of our countrymen, because it comes with a strict set of conditions that did not inspire those involved to participate in this system. If you are able to deal with this in a manner involving debt settlement and natural persons, I would be very interested in your position to make the condition of family bankruptcy more humane at some point. Because it may even help the situation of former foreign exchange credentials who have been converted into forints. Overall, we have made a lot of amendments in recent years, but it is certain that family bankruptcy protection will always be necessary in some form. We are in market conditions, there will always be market players who are subject to amazing consumer abuse. The currency scandal, the Quaestor scandal, and so on are practically on conveyor belts every few years. It is our responsibility to intervene at parliamentary level, to protect Hungarian citizens, consumers and their wallets with well-established laws. At the same time, it is not enough to cosmetics these rules. It is necessary to bring family bankruptcy protection that finally allows for the right to walk away in Hungary. So after five years of being in a rather strict set of conditions, the citizen does not have a debt of 4-5-8-20-30 million, but can at least try to rebuild his life from scratch, which has already been torn apart by financial institutions. I know it's a very simplistic model, but it should be for these people. It is no coincidence that these. walk away-type solutions in other countries are relatively successful factors in the market, and they have been working for a long time. [[15.10]] I am amazed at the fact that, after the institutionalised foreign exchange-loaning of so many people in Hungary, this did not come up, let alone the facilitation of the condition of family bankruptcy protection. Overall, we could therefore make these improving amendments to this package. Once again, I am making a promise: if these are accepted in this package, or even before Parliament at the last minute, in some form, we can be much more open. As long as we do not have these, it is very difficult to support this foundational package. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for a concrete and meaningful response to our specific points, because these issues are important not only to me, but also to the tens of thousands of victims. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2023-06-15-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-15-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I will continue here at the debate on the laws on the basis of which the budget is based, where I left off during the budget debate, because my time frame is over. It is very interesting that every year this proposal is named as the package of laws on which the budget is based, although, as I said in the budgetary debate, it is really possible to talk about unfoundedness on all sides rather than justification, Mr Secretary of State. And, then, how can we take it seriously if we are holding a budget where six per cent inflation is projected, with 6 per cent inflation planned for 2024 when I stopped here, 21.5 per cent was still statistically, with statistical magic tricks in May this year, which means that in practice, because of the much higher food inflation, people do not perceive it yet, they do not notice it. So for the products and services, especially the basic foods from which people buy the most, which they need the most for everyday livelihoods, for everyday living, and they lose the most, the price reduction, more specifically, the decrease in inflation, is not at all or only very little. In order to show the weight of the situation even more, it is enough to be serious, but it is well founded because it is justified to make statements that we have the highest inflation in the European Union, not with a target photograph or almost dead competition with one or more countries. Estonia follows us by 13.2 percent, Mr. Secretary of State. So there is also a huge difference in inflation between 21.5 and 13.2 unfortunately, not for our benefit. Then, if we taste Hungary's tenth highest inflation in the world, the next Egypt after us is 30,6 percent, then again we can feel quite rightly that there are serious problems with state economic policy. We could list the mismanagement of the crisis associated with the world project Covid, bring in the 2022 election budget, the amount of money that was printed into the system. Of course, some of this did serve or serve the interests of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, because more money was made available to them, but since they were on the other side of the horse to secure their election victory, or rather to over-confirm it, we will drink the juice in 2023, in 24 hours, and I think it will continue throughout this cycle. So you don't really see how you want to break food inflation in the first place. And speaking of which, this is most strongly linked to the subject of agriculture, isn't it? I said in the budget debate that we probably shouldn't yell, we hope, so that EU funds will remain on the agricultural title, and in the next many years' planning period, up to HUF 5000 billion of resources can come. However, due to the completely distorted agricultural structure you have created, a large part of this will not migrate to the original farmers, not to the prehistoric family farms, but to those oligarchs who least need to receive new applications, either by normative means or by tender. As long as a healthy structure of agriculture does not come together here, Mr. State Secretary, and they do not understand that it is unsustainable that high quality Hungarian food materials and raw materials are exported abroad, processed there and sold to the Hungarian in a much poorer quality, there will be no change here. Instead of doing that, they would base a manufacturing industry on your two-thirds potential for the benefit of the Hungarian people, so that what we produce here, raw materials, we process and market here and turn the way forward or the way forward or the product or the goods, we would take as much abroad as possible, we would not feed our own in the lowest quality category. Not only is it outrageous that in a country with traditionally excellent agricultural characteristics, food inflation is highest, which is supposed to be the highest everyday life of Hungarians in 2024, at least in part, the outrageous fact that we have the highest inflation in the EU as a whole, not only is it outrageous that food inflation is the highest in a country with traditionally excellent agricultural characteristics, but that we also see that instead of supporting the economies that are not going to leave us here, unlike the multinationals, they are not going to migrate, they are not going to relocate their capacities to another country, if they arrive at worse times, because they were born here because of farming, in many places even their great parents and grandparents are buried in the cemeteries of that settlement, you are not supporting them, you are not supporting these family economies to an appropriate degree, Mr. Although I think 1050 or 1070 billion is undercounted, because if you look at the fact that we have only talked about 157 billion for the Debrecen battery plant, and when the entire capacity of the battery plant is built, this increases to 300 billion, and this is only Debrecen, and nothing else is involved, then it is quite certain that this 1000 billion is a multiple. So it's a thousand billion-dollar number, but it's not a single. There, therefore, there are unlimited resources, there they will find the money they need for this, but it is hardly possible for essential food production. And on top of that, the most outrageous conversation with people, consumers, food buyers, you know what, Secretary of State? Selling poor quality to people at a price of gold. So it is not that food prices are skyrocketing, but at least the Hungarian people get excellent quality, but the worst combination is realized: at a price of gold or even at a price higher than the gold price, it is of poor quality, often inedible, tasteless or even tasteless. If you look at the different vegetables bought in a large multishop chain, everything tastes the same: cucumber, peppers, perhaps even onions have a slightly more pronounced taste, partly reminiscent of onions. And you, along with the different authorities, like the bad football player, are watching the game at close range. At least you don't have to buy the ticket, that's true, so it's an undisputed advantage, but it's still outrageous; although it's true, this partly goes beyond the context of this debate. The situation with regard to sovereign debt was also mentioned in the budgetary debate. Well, unlike the majority of Balliberal parties, Mi Hazan believes that the right direction in itself is that if the State in question, in this case the Hungarian State, owes its own citizens, it would rather borrow from its own citizens, say, in the form of sovereign debt than belong to foreign banks or financial institutions. If you like, this is also a matter of national security, because Hungarian citizens, except for a possible panic reaction or a panic wave, are less likely to overthrow the Hungarian state than they would, if necessary, overthrow a large international capital company or one or more banks. This would therefore be an eligible target in itself; this is the right and good direction to increase internal indebtedness, given that the level of public debt is, say, between 73 and 76 per cent of GDP. In our opinion, this is a very optimistic estimate, and I feel that it is actually well above 80 percent, but according to the statement, the debt-to-GDP ratio is 73-76 percent, if you can believe what you have described. So the issue of sovereign debt alone would not be such a problem, and it is far from our country to rebel against it. However, do not be surprised that trust has either run out of patience and is slowly or to a very small extent present. [[15.20]] Your team decided in 2010 or 2011 to rob private pension fund savings of HUF 3000 billion. At the time, they promised that the person who entered the state system, right, was the decisive majority, would open an individual account. I don't know if you had any responsibility, but I'm not sure if you can answer that right now. These individual accounts have not been created since then, since it is not in your interest. After 3,000 billion forints of private pension fund savings were stolen, they are surprised that now, when the Russian-American war is taking place in the neighbouring Ukrainian area, we can slowly say that the Russian-NATO war, when not directly due to the war, but before inflation has been skyrocketed, and it is not really possible to curb it, when it is falling back to the branches such as agriculture and construction, and savings are already worth much less than one or two years ago due to inflation, people are afraid that people will look back at the time of the private pension fund regulation, that perhaps even bypassing the National Assembly, as they have done with the tax increase in some of the savings, isn't it, when they figured out, instead of the girl, that 13 percent of them would be burdened with sochos, so that instead of 15 they'll look back at some forms of savings that don't apply to sovereign debt, because they're trying to steer people in the direction of tax increases, don't they wonder about what's going on, instead of the state's having a very critical situation, because they'll have a lot of saving the world, because they might have a lot more than they's saving, because they's got a lot of saving the world, because they's got a lot longer than they's worth, because they's saving it, because they's a lot of saving it, because they's a lot of them, because they's a lot of them, or a lot more than they's, or a lot of the world, because they's got a lot of them, because they's a lot of them, because they's a lot of them, because they's, because they've got a lot of them, because they's a lot of them, they's a lot of them, they's a lot, they're, or a lot of them, they've got a lot more than they're, because they's they're, because they're, because they's they've got a lot more than they're, they've got a lot of them, because they've got a lot of them, because they've got a lot of them, because they've got a lot of them, because they've got a lot more than they' It is very nice that at least in the case of shares, investment in real estate funds and sovereign debt, public burdens have not yet been raised, and believe that people do not care at all about personal income tax or social contributions, i.e. sajja or socho, the returns generated on their savings. They are interested in the fact that at the end of the term, or if they are in a situation where they need to be touched, and they want their money back in whole or in part, under what conditions, what amount they will receive back. Don't be surprised, and don't look for the wrong person or the responsible person in our country's Movement, that trust has been shaken, when we see that thousands of billions of forints were virtually lost in a few weeks, even ten years ago, without thinking. Since then, it has not been very clear whether the money went to public debt payments at that time or exactly what it was used for. They did not respect the Hungarian people so much that they would have said that if we had already stolen your private pension fund savings, dear Hungarian people, then what did we use this for: government debt management, development, pensions and what. 'Cause it doesn't show so much in debt repayment, either, that you're destined for this amount, so I advise you with the utmost goodwill that you're trying to strengthen or create trust, if that's still possible. Now let us think that it is for many Hungarian people, if any small pensioners, that it has been able to save a few million forints for the twilight or difficult times of their lives, perhaps for the financial support of their grandchildren or their children, and imagine what it must feel like to be in danger. The worst deal now is to keep the money in cash, if we can even talk about more savings here. Obviously, there is a circle, people or families in certain financial situations who can afford it, because they are still making significant savings and placing you in different forms of investment. I mean, let's say I do not understand why there is no public burden increase in shares, probably your top-class investors and business circles... because most Hungarians are risk-avoiding or are only willing to take a very moderate risk, so they prefer sovereign debt, especially if they produce a tax-free return as widely as possible or have an affordable public burden of access to the return. Think back to their past 13 years, and the last 33 years of Hungarian politics, and they will find out very quickly why people do not trust that they will receive, in the case of terms and conditions, what was said at the time of the signing of the contract or the conclusion of the sovereign debt contract. As far as municipalities are concerned, Mr Secretary of State, well, there is no reason to be satisfied in this regard either because they have practically cut public law or economically, they have put the local government on the ground, and there is little room for self-decision for the municipalities. In fact, everything is decided from the centre, and with the exception of some exceptional municipalities with exceptional sources of income, it is now impossible to really talk about the local government in the traditional sense. Thank you very much for your attention. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-06-15-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who presents the first sentences of his speech in ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2023-06-15-97	[[???Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание, Уважаеми господин Държавен секретар! Позволете ми да ви поздравя от името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и от моето име.???]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and myself. As a spokesperson invited by the Committee, and also as Chairman of the Committee on Nationalities of Hungary's Budget Sub-Committee, allow T/4254 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2024. I would like to express our committee's position with regard to bill No. I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is T/4254. At its meeting held at 11 a.m. on 12 June 2023, the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2024 was put on the agenda and discussed. The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution, i.e. house rule 32. § 2 by 12 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against, has decided that the bill has the whole, i.e. 1-107. The Committee would like to hold a detailed debate on the subject. In addition to planning rules, the sound implementation of the budget is primarily ensured by the commitment rules. The level of the undertaking is limited by law. The amendment of the public finance legislation before us is on the one hand aimed at planned chapter stability. Although the majority of the provisions of the bill do not directly affect the nationalities and their municipalities and institutions in Hungary, it can be said that the rapid and effective responses to the extraordinary situation and the adjustment of the budget for 2023 to the specific challenges create stability and security, which, together with its sub-schemes, can keep the whole system on track and protect the results achieved. I would like to highlight the following from the points of the bill concerning nationalities, including the functioning of national authorities. The proposal is 45. §2 CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. It amends the law of stability. With the allowed rule of the law, municipalities, including national minority authorities, have already been given the opportunity to gain greater management autonomy and thus greater leeway. The rule states, and I quote:. There is no need for the government's consent to (a) statutory guarantee or guarantee of the municipality; (b) for its debt-generating transaction within a calendar year; (c) for the conclusion of a debt-generating transaction which is c) for the provision of pre-financing of aid received from the European Union or other international organisations from the central budget; (cb) for the reorganisation loan used for the conclusion of the creditors' settlement procedure. And cc) serves development purposes and does not exceed HUF 100 million for the municipality of the Municipality of Budapest and the municipality of the county, or HUF 20 million for the national minority self-government. [[15.30]] This amendment eliminates the reporting prior to the submission of requests for transactions generating municipal debt, which means a substantial reduction in administration for municipalities. By eliminating the reporting, requests for authorisation for debt-generating transactions may be submitted from the beginning of the year after the adoption of the municipal Financial Regulation and outlook, thus making liquidity difficulties at the beginning of the year of permanent problems easier to overcome. It was necessary to adapt to the provisions on the functioning of national authorities in these difficult times and therefore to ensure their smooth and orderly functioning. The proposed amendments make the relevant laws simpler and more comprehensible and include amendments that increase Hungary's economic stability, thereby also increasing the financial security of citizens and nationalities living in Hungary. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Finally, allow me to thank both the government and Parliament for providing exemplary support to preserve the national identity of national minorities in Hungary, which has been manifested both in the continuous increase in budget support and through the multi-level support of national education and culture in recent years. Ensuring the necessary resources for the balanced, stable functioning of national authorities and their institutions contributes to the preservation of nationalities in Hungary. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your assistance and cooperation in protecting national resources and results. T/4254 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2024 The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities proposes to adopt the bill No. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-98	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, No one's applied for a two-minute speech so far. I would like to ask if someone would like to make further use of this opportunity as part of our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State how you'd like to react. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-06-15-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your comments and suggestions, above all, and I trust that we may be able to clarify a number of issues that may not have been clear on the basis of the keynote speeches. Some of the comments did not concern themselves with the norm in the bill before you, but also expressed comments in a broader context. Allow me to respond briefly to these, too. Mr László Varju made an observation on the national assets, on the sale of assets, and on the question. I would like to clarify that in the direction of what real estate, what assets the government intends to sell, there is no change. The proposal before you contains only one administrative reduction, and it is true that the Minister for Property, Minister Martin Nagy, can decide in a regulation which properties can be sold. I would like to highlight two things here: on the one hand, these are not used real estate which is not necessary for the task of public institutions; on the other hand, the Minister must designate these real estates in a regulation, in a public document. Therefore, there is no change in the fact that only immovable property and property elements which are not used for public tasks can be sold, and there is no change in the fact that this will be done in a public way, only one simplification is included in the motion. As regards the proposals for transfers, Mr László Varju said that I should recall exactly what the Member said, that the Parliament's powers would be impaired if such transfers were made. I am arguing with Mr President because the bill before you contains that transfers can only be made within the framework of the budget law adopted by Parliament, and that there is no change in the rule that the minister in question, to put it simply, can only make transfers between the corresponding budget appropriations if it results from savings and changes in public tasks. Let me give you a simple example. If an investment is planned for, but due to technical problems, that investment is delayed, then there may be savings in a given year that the Minister may transfer, and there is control: the Minister of Finance must indicate this, and if the Minister of Finance does not agree with this transfer, then he must take the matter to the government. But again, this transfer can only take place within the chapter limits set by Parliament, and the law defines the appropriations that should not be affected by this transfer: so-called centralised appropriations; for example, family support, including those EU funds, but this includes, say, interest expenditure and a number of additional types of appropriations. Of course, the Parliament will receive a detailed report of all transfers in the framework of the closing accounts, as the so-called chapter volumes present the original budget plan in detail here. As regards the borrowing of local governments, Congressman Varju said that it is a question of restricting municipal sovereignty, and later said that it is a question of reducing municipal rights. Thank you very much, Mr Varga Simeon, spokesperson, for recalling exactly what the bill before you contains, and perhaps it is more credible or clear that it was not the rapporteur, but the advocate who said that in his view it was an administrative reduction proposal. What's this about? In accordance with the laws in force, each municipality must first provide a preliminary information on the loan it intends to borrow or which other debt transaction it intends to carry out in that year. When this information was provided and a report was prepared, only then could the actual request for credit be submitted. Instead, this advance reporting will cease and the local government will be able to contact the government at any time after the adoption of its own annual Financial Regulation and outlook with a request for a credit authorisation. You've had to do this before, but I repeat, before you had to do it, you had to do it in advance. This reporting will cease. And what I think helps the norm, is that the borrowing criteria must be applied not only to local governments but also to local government-owned companies, who are currently subject to an authorisation requirement. As regards the modification of the health task, the so-called Directorate-General for Public Procurement and Supply is an organisation that is currently engaged in the operation and maintenance of state-owned property. This organisation is not under the supervision of Minister Antal Rogán, who is head of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, but under the supervision of Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, and this organisation is currently, I repeat, carrying out tasks related to real estate management and maintenance. Therefore, he has experience in the area where his duties are extended, as from 1 July this year in respect of hospitals in the capital and from 1 January next year in relation to hospitals in the Hospital Directorate-General. This provision is fully in line with the draft budget law that you are discussing next year. The sources of the health sector are also increasing because, following separation, operating costs are included in the Ministry of Finance chapter and in the Directorate-General for Public Procurement and Supply, and professional expenditure remains under the responsibility of the Minister for Health. Mr Sándor Szabó mentioned the amount of the minimum pension, and in his comments he also mentioned that this amount has been unchanged since then. [[15.40]] Let me also take this opportunity to say that this minimum pension is not really an effective limit for pensions. Why do I say that? To get a partial pension, you have to have at least 15 years of entitlement, I simply put it this way: you have to work for 15 years. If someone works for 15 years and earns a minimum wage and now retires, then the established partial pension is 64 800 HUF. This increases, by definition, depending on how much time he worked and how much he earned. So this HUF 28 500 was actually a calculation basis for various social benefits, rather than an amount that would have fixed effective pension payments. Let me give you another stats. There are people who receive a pension of 30-40,000 forints. 95 percent of people who receive pension below HUF 40,000 receive benefits from abroad. Why? Because they were mainly working abroad, and their pension is low because they worked here little time and made little money. The pension scheme is an insurance system, i.e. it depends on the amount of income they earn during the working years of the persons receiving the pension and on the pension contributions paid. As regards employment in the public sector, Mr President, notary, there are exceptions, typically health, education, areas that are often a priority area for representatives of the left-wing benches. I think that in the budget of the 24-year period, it was reassuring, hopefully, at least in terms of the figures, that we can count on substantial nominal growth. In these sectors, such as education and health, we continue to expect that those who reach the retirement age but want to work and need work can work alongside a pension. A different approach to the employment of pensioners between the public sector and the private sector is that, in the context of budgetary discipline, expenditure limits in the public sector must be more closely monitored than in the competitive sphere. We would particularly like to encourage employment. We know the labour market is tight. I think it is good that people who have reached retirement age want to continue working. This is ensured by next year's draft budget law and tax proposals, without having to pay an individual contribution other than personal income tax to the elderly worker. With regard to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's comments on family support, let me note that I have also seen statistics in the region, and the Member has made it very clear that it was not a Hungarian speciality that the fertility rate began to improve. But the graphs I saw showed that this growth was stronger in Hungary than in neighbouring countries after 2010, and in this strong growth perhaps we can agree, and that Mr. So I claim that yes, I can see that there has been a trend change elsewhere, but the improvement in Hungary has been stronger than in the surrounding countries. Perhaps, in this stronger improvement, there must be a series of family policy measures that we can see after 2010. In the amount of the family tax relief, I would like to say two numbers. The first is the absolute amount. Family tax benefits can be applied not only from personal income tax but also from contributions paid by employees. The planned figure for next year is HUF 372 billion, so this is significantly higher than the budget of the family allowance of 307 billion. If you look at all the family benefits associated with childbearing, including the tax relief of the first married couple or the tax relief of mothers under the age of 30, then the total number is around HUF 686 billion. That was the first, not even a number, but a group of numbers I wanted to say. But the other thing is what this means in case of specific consumption for specific families. The congressman said that this is a discount for the better way [[For signal:]] I was wrong, I'm sorry, Congressman Varju is making it possible to take advantage of the possibility of tax relief. Let me give you some specific numbers again. If three children are raised in a family, it is not quite HUF 310 thousand, and it takes exactly HUF 309 375 gross income to validate the maximum family discount for three children. Today, the minimum wage in Hungary is 232,000 HUF. So if the father and mother work in a family, and both are registered at minimum wage, working at minimum wage, they can fully enforce the family tax allowance for three children, and it turns out that even if they have four children, they have four children. Thus, the current tax system also allows lower income workers to enforce family tax relief as much as possible, so this tax relief, I believe, encourages both employment and childbearing, and it is not true that it would support only one higher class of society, a narrower layer of childbearing. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát used the word "removal of foreign exchange lenders." [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Robbing by Banks!]] Let's put this right so that after 2010, the changes in legislation and the measures under which 99 percent of foreign exchange lenders are out of the trap of foreign exchange lending. 1 percent why did you stay? Why is there a 1% foreign exchange loan? That's because they have a foreign exchange income. In accordance with the rules in force, it is possible to be indebted in foreign currency when a person has an income in foreign currency. As far as family bankruptcy is concerned, I can say that if the Member has proposals, he should send them over, let us look at them, but I think it is very important that we only have legislation that does not encourage abuse. I do not think that regulation should be put in place to encourage bad faith, so that someone should take out loans and then leave the loan to the financial institution from which he took it, and he will leave with the money taken. So we need to find that section, that thin corridor that leads us through two problems. One of the problems is that someone is moaning for a lifetime under the burden of a loan, and between taking a loan and using it as an abuse, so hundreds of tricks, let's say, take this resource somewhere. István Apáti's comment: in relation to inflation, let me say so, Mr President, that if we look back at facts, then, let us say, the number of annual inflation is the best way to look at it. In European comparison, in 2022, there were more countries where inflation was higher than in Hungary. I'm looking at this year's data. We also talked a lot about the reasons. If you mentioned the food sector, we know together that there was no drought in the neighbouring countries like Hungary. I think that has an impact on food prices. I agree that efficiency must also be improved. I'll tell you about this, but in the event of inflation, let me have one more piece of information. I like to quote the European Commission itself, which predicts inflation in its own forecast of 4% by 2024 and forecasts higher inflation in a very large number of countries by 2024. Thus, historical data and future forecasts do not show that Hungary has or will have the highest inflation rate. There are moments of time, then, yes, I agree with you, inflation is high, but inflation has a dynamic. [[15.50]] I also think the dynamics are influenced by the government's actions. If you have said food inflation, we must see that the prices of many products are fixed from the end of 2021, sugar, flour, milk and the other Members who represent them know them. He also knows what kind of mandatory action needs to be done by different shops, or how the online price monitoring system helps families. One of the tools to reduce food inflation is, in my view, to increase the efficiency of food companies. If you think this is important, Mr President, you need to see two things. On the one hand, in the budget we have just discussed, the agricultural and rural development programmes have a budget of HUF 670 billion and we give 80% national funding to EU funds. This is for the support of food companies. The other thing is when you mention foreign investments. It is important to see that the government's policy is that I typically do not see foreign investments in the food industry, which are carried out with State aid. So in the food sector there are important Hungarian companies: Master Good, Gallicoop and others. We would like to strengthen Hungarian companies there. Typically foreign companies receive investment aid where there are no Hungarian companies, where Hungarian companies cannot enter the relevant market, and where the foreign company adds to the performance of the Hungarian economy. In terms of debt, perhaps Congressman questioned that the figures would be real. I am saying that the sovereign debt figures we have talked about are not government figures, they are the figures validated by Eurostat in the past, and on this basis we say that the sovereign debt ratio has decreased substantially since 2021. Private pension savings, sovereign financing. Let me argue with the fact that private pension funds were stolen by the state, which is the word the congressman used. Each member of the private pension fund could decide to withdraw, a number of them withdrew, otherwise exempted from previous losses. The majority of the private pension funds were used for public debt financing, and the National Assembly received a separate information notice on this. A small part of the withdrawal financed the payment of pensions. Trust is very important, I agree. The confidence in Hungarian economic policy regarding the financing of Hungarian sovereign debt must be preserved. I hope that we can maintain this trust in the year 2024. This is also served by the 24-year bill before you and the foundation bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-15-100	I thank the Secretary of State for his persistent participation in the debate and for the detailed answers. Dear Parliament, Proposals for amendments are still open until 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on airlines' contributions and amending certain tax laws will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/4243. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2023-06-15-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Members, On 6 June 2023, the Government submitted T/4243 on the contribution of airlines and amending certain tax laws. Bill No. 1. The aim of the regulation is to increase the level of tax rules at the level of regulation in emergency legislation, but designed for the long term, in order to facilitate compliance with the law of taxable persons and to bring the amendments resulting from certain EU harmonisation obligations into the legal order. In addition, the bill contains the necessary provisions based on the experience gained so far in the application of tax laws. The aim is to adopt amendments to facilitate a uniform interpretation of the law and which are necessary on the basis of practical experience. Dear Parliament, In order to ensure that the provisions of the Government Decree on the contribution of airlines to extra-profit taxes remain in force in the long term, these rules are incorporated into the present bill with unchanged content in accordance with the hierarchy of sources of law and the principle of legal certainty. As is known, at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, the government adopted a number of measures aimed at improving the welfare of families and facilitating the situation of workers. The measures were published in the Emergency Government Decree to ensure that they could be applied immediately. However, given that the government has decided that the measures in question will be part of the legal system in the long term, we are therefore initiating them to be brought up to legal level in the bill before you. The proposal therefore includes provisions on the benefit of mothers under the age of 30, as well as rules on increased family benefits for families with chronically ill or severely disabled children. The rules under which the employer can refund the employee's work costs for up to HUF 30 per kilometre free of tax are also included in the personal income tax law in an unchanged form if they come from other municipalities to work or occasionally to their permanent residence. The removal of the Széchenyi rest card sub-accounts will also lead to changes in the relevant rules. However, the changes do not affect the main framework for granting benefits under reduced public burdens. A positive change for farmers is that, in the case of the sale of tangible assets used for the activity, the investment cost of the asset purchased in the reference year or in the following year until the tax return has been submitted but not later than 20 May. The preferential rule shall apply retroactively from 1 January 2022. Honourable Members, In addition to the previous, the bill also introduces new rules on the tax liability of property managed under the trust management relationship in relation to personal income tax. The new rule closes an existing tax loophole. The essence of the legislation contained in the bill is that it must be regarded as a sale, i.e. a tax point arises if, on the basis of the relationship between the trust management, the founder or the connected individual places the property value in the asset management or owns it for the private foundation. However, it should be stressed that the aim is not to make trust management impossible, as we still think it is a good tool to achieve a generational change. It will continue to be possible to transfer assets to asset management at acquisition value, in which case there will still be no tax liability on the ordering of assets. Dear House, The amendments tabled in the bill also bring to a legal level the rules already applied to simplified employment in the second half of last year, which determine the rate of daily allowances payable in the context of simplified employment and the basis for the benefits based on them, depending on the minimum wage. The rule that has been applicable since 1 September last year, and on the basis of which the paying agent does not pay a simplified public liability contribution, will also become final once the remuneration has been paid to individuals employed in accordance with the rules of the Echo Act. Thus, such employment is only charged by the 15% echo deducted from the individual. An important measure in the social contribution tax is the expansion of an existing benefit, the range of beneficiaries of benefits for persons with disabilities. In order to ensure equal opportunities, the future social contribution tax may also benefit from a partial allowance from an employer who employs private workers with serious disabilities who are not in receipt of the provision of the disabled, but who receive disability benefits or a personal benefit for the blind, and who do not have a complex qualification for the existence of a changed working capacity. Dear Parliament, Among the proposals on the corporate tax law, I would like to point out that the amount of the donation for the account number of the National Collaboration will be the amount of an amount recognised in the corporate tax base without a separate certificate in order to encourage donations and reduce the administrative burden. The proposal removes the time limit for the use of losses incurred by businesses by the end of their fiscal year 2014 to help businesses recover from the economic difficulties of the past period. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Honourable Members, The bill proposes an important simplification for small business taxable persons in the regulation of the innovation contribution. Therefore, businesses will be able to determine their contribution liability in the future on the basis of their simplified local industrialisation tax base. [[16.00]] In the regulation of the income tax on energy suppliers, the special tax on financial entities and the financial transaction levy, the proposal aims to bring to the legal level the provisions regulated at the level of the Emergency Regulation but to be maintained in the long term. Dear Parliament, The amendments to the registration tax are aimed at rationalising and extending the possibilities for electronic administration in registration tax procedures and are now repealing unnecessary, obsolete provisions. I would also like to draw attention to two elements of the provisions concerning the amendment of the VAT Act. One of them is an amendment to the operation of the mandatory redemption system for single debit rolls starting next year, according to which the payment of VAT becomes ex post against the current payment and recovery practices. Thus, it will only hatch after deposit-paying rolls that have not been returned in the calendar year. The other amendment contains the first steps necessary for the general introduction of the electronic receipt. As regards the excise duty law, the rate of excise duty on fuels should be increased from 1 January 2024 in order to comply with the EU minimum tax rates. At the same time, the tax rate for commercial gas oil should be adjusted to the EU tax minimum and the tax refund for agricultural gas oil should be increased in order to ensure an unchanged tax burden. In accordance with the principle of legal certainty, the additional rates of excise duty laid down in the Government Decree on extra-profit taxes are incorporated in the current excise duty law with unchanged content. In addition, excise legislation will be further simplified and streamlined. This will allow the return of excise goods in trade to a tax warehouse for subsequent distribution purposes and simplify the service of law enforcement bodies and vehicles of the National Rescue Service. In addition, small-scale wine producers and simplified tax warehouse activities. Next year, it will be possible to hand over its own grapes with an appropriate permit for the production of bottled fermented sparkling wine in the wage production and the resulting sparkling wine will be returned to the wine plant. The scope of the official seal will be streamlined by eliminating the use of the official seal in packages not exceeding 60 litres, and the rules for sealing alcohols will become more flexible. Honourable Members, The public health product tax, commonly known as neta, does not change compared to the rules in force. This is possible because the bill will, in total, include the provisions of the current emergency government decree with unchanged content and unchanged wording in the law, in accordance with the rule of law criteria, requesting the approval of this House. To a large extent, only the emergency government regulations are included in the tax law in the present proposal. I think it is important to mention that the range of vehicles exempt from motor vehicle tax is expanding. On the one hand, public bodies become exempt, including vehicles owned by municipal fire brigades. In addition, there will be an exemption for vehicles owned by a budgetary body, association or foundation and owned by an association or foundation. The exemption is conditional on those entities not having to pay corporate tax on business activities in the previous year. With regard to the amendment of the local tax law, I would like to highlight two issues, one concerning the obligation of temporary agency workers and the other concerning the obligation of commercial tax on air passengers. According to tax experience, some temporary employment agencies have created a business and contractual structure that significantly reduces the amount of business tax. In order to eliminate this unwanted tax avoidance, the bill states that the territory of the municipality where the employees of the temporary employment company actually work for the company receiving the loan should also be regarded as the place of business taxing. In order not to trigger a relatively small loan obligation in the municipality and thus excessive administration, it is proposed that the establishment be established if the total number of hours worked in the municipality in the tax year is more than 1440 hours. This also has the additional advantage of generating revenue from the municipality where the work of the loan workers has a negative impact because, for example, the additional labour force on the urban infrastructure is emerging. Another change in the local tax law worth highlighting is the recoding of the business tax liability of air transport passengers. These companies, if they have representation, have offices in Hungary, are still subject to tax. However, this is not in line with the characteristics of their activities: the transport of passengers by air. Therefore, the proposal sets out, on the one hand, that the airport from which the airline operates constitutes an establishment, i.e. an establishment triggering a business tax liability. On the other hand, the proposal also provides that net turnover, including indirect business tax, will include not only limited ticket revenues, but also other revenues from the provision of travel-related services, such as the cost of location insurance or other amenities. In view of the specificities of air passenger transport, the proposal also sets out specific tax base-sharing rules: if the air passenger operates in more than one municipality, i.e. there are several municipalities in which the airport is used, or if the airport is located in more than one municipality's jurisdiction. Dear Parliament, The proposed amendment to the Accounting Act is primarily for simplification. In view of the increased costs and the ongoing inflation effects, the proposal raises the revenue threshold for the mandatory use of the accountant from HUF 10 million to HUF 20 million. With this, some 50 000 of the smallest companies may be exempted from the compulsory application of the accountant. In line with the digitalisation objectives, the proposed amendment of the Audit Act extends the obligation of the audit documentation to perform electronic archiving and preservation to all Chamber Members auditors and audit firms. In addition, the amendment requires all auditors to sign the independent audit report electronically for the future. There will be more than two years of preparation for auditors to apply the new rules, so I think that there will be time to apply and prepare for them. The proposal initiates the establishment of official training to establish a qualifying accounting profession as a regulated profession, similar to other regulated professions. The pursuit of the profession is subject to the acquisition of a qualifying accounting qualification. Maintaining the quality of training and of the examinations closing training, and maintaining a uniform system of requirements at national level, justifies the introduction of official training. Official training will continue to be carried out with the assistance of market participants, while the conditions for training and testing will be laid down by law instead of the current programme requirements. The Authority's training system is extended to tax advisors and tax experts, as well as balance-sheet accountants. Dear House, Reducing tax administration, simplification, deregulation and the whitening of the economy are the focus of the tax procedure rules that have just been submitted. More than 3.5 million individuals, businesses and companies are affected by the facilitation that will only have to pay a car tax once a year instead of two times a year. If you can't pay the tax in one amount, you can do it in five months. There can be a significant increase in the number of non-public debt taxpayers; it is not only a zero-forint debt; if the proposal is voted by the Parliament, a person who does not have a public debt of more than HUF 30 thousand and has a net tax debt of more than HUF 5 thousand will also be deemed to be free of public debt. More than half a million legal entities can expect significant relief as they can use automatic payments once a year if the proposal is adopted. The new option, i.e. the fact that the debt below HUF 1 million can be paid free of charge and in instalments for six months, can help the liquidity of companies and boost their long-term competitiveness. In the whitening of the economy, Hungary is at the forefront, and in the last 13 years the value of tax avoidance has decreased to a quarter. In order to prove this by numbers: while in 2010 there was 22,3 percent of VAT, it has now fallen to 5.1 percent. With this, Hungary has achieved the best result in the fight against VAT fraud in the Member States of the European Union, and this is confirmed by the European Commission's report. With the adoption of the bill, we can expect further bleaching. Fictitious, fraudulent taxpayers are the object of the new rule which, with two serious omissions, broadens the facts of the cancellation of the tax number. On the one hand, those responsible for electronic contact, if they do not have electronic storage, and, on the other hand, those returning farmers which do not send their missing declaration within 180 days, despite the request, may expect the deletion of the tax number. An effective means of calling the tax authority to make a declaration may be used against abusers of the home rules. A half a million HUF fine will be put at risk by the head office provider that does not declare that the company that has been notified to him has property that can be seized. [[16.10]] The customer-centricity of tax administrations is enhanced by a rule which does not sanction the failure to notify with an immediate fine, but provides a legal guarantee to replace the default, such as a notification or a change notification. At the same time, debtors may be significantly relieved by the fact that the owner of the property subject to the obligation will also request the suspension of enforcement. Dear House, In summary, I can say that the bill before you will help to preserve the progress achieved in recent years and will be in line with the government's simplification tax policy. That is why I ask you to support and accept it. Thank you very much for your kind attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-102	Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on the proposal in a four-hour 40-minute time frame. I would ask Mr András Aradszki to explain the time frame. Here you go, notary.
u2023-06-15-103	Dear Parliament, The time frame of 4 hours is divided by: 95 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 45 minutes for the KDNP Group; 27 minutes for the DK Group; 21 minutes for the Momentum Group; 24 minutes for the MSZP Group; 19 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 17 minutes for the Group of Hungary; 17 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 15 minutes for the LMP Group; 3 minutes for the independent Members.
u2023-06-15-104	Dear House, I would like to inform you that, if the EP representative made his statement through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced it as a speaker. Where he has made a direct application, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Gyula Siberényi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-15-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Despite the current war situation, the tax package presented by the government is a proposal that protects the family-friendly tax system, i.e. preserves one of Europe's lowest personal income taxes, family tax relief, tax exemptions for four children, mothers under 30 and under 25 and, moreover, continues to guarantee a reduced VAT rate for basic foods. Thus, the combined sum of family policy spending and family tax incentives exceeds HUF 3300 billion next year. Over the past year, we have seen that the prolonged war and the penalty energy crisis have caused difficult economic conditions throughout Europe, and this has also affected our country. On the basis of the bill submitted, the government is planning further tax relief and tax reduction in some areas for next year, despite the difficult situation. Among other things, it extends the benefits of employment for people with disabilities, reduces administration and simplifies the rules on car taxation. The bill includes both the harmonisation of EU legislation and the tax amendments needed to whiteen the economy. Under the proposal, fuels are not subject to excise duty for airlines and therefore the level of public transport charges is extremely low. Therefore, like other EU countries, the contribution of airlines will be maintained as a green tax in Hungary, giving a discount to less polluting aircraft. We can see that the whitening of the economy will continue next year. While the rate of VAT avoidance in 2010 was 22,3 percent, it has now fallen to 5.1 percent, which is one of the most favourable results in the European Union. This wins fair businesses, wins the economy and wins the budget. The tax laws that are now being submitted provide an appropriate basis for next year's budget, to protect families, pensions, jobs and reductions, and to safeguard Hungary's security. This is also worth emphasising because, when comparing the tax measures of the national government with those of the governments before 2010, the two tax policies are in direct conflict with each other. During the time of left-wing governments, Hungary hardly had any contributions, taxes or levies that would not have changed. In Hungary, tax rates were almost a part of everyday life, tax and contribution structures were constantly reorganized, and newer and newer taxes appeared in particular. Returning to the bill, I would also like to highlight a new element, a novelty from it, because Hungary is the first to introduce the so-called e-rest in the European Union. Paperless requisition means less administration, easy use and cost reduction for businesses. In addition, it can become a way of giving receipts from an environmental and epidemiological point of view around the world. In parallel with the provision of data, taking into account technological developments, the cash register system could be renewed in the future, which, in the spirit of environmental awareness, could also encourage the spread of electronic receipts. Another good news is that the proposal raises the requirement of emergency legislation to extend the duration of the reduced rate of 5 per cent of general traffic tax on the sale of new residential property by two years. It also includes transitional arrangements for the management of prolonged construction. It is also a good news for those who are about to expand their homes that, like the rent exemption for apartments purchased using CSOK, the acquisition of property resulting from the expansion of another property owned by the CSOK grant will become tax-free, which is typically the case of attic construction. Dear Parliament, In recent years, the government's tax policy has typically focused on reducing taxes and simplifying administration. The bill before us was also drawn up in line with these principles, which is why the Fidesz fraction supports it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-106	Thank you. I give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-06-15-107	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear House, There's more I'd like to talk to you about. As a first thought, I would like to point out that I hope that there is no need to worry about the impossibility of access to the NAV, that the tax collection organisation may have some problems, but its central telephone number has been unavailable for virtually three days, and they have even admitted today that they cannot answer questions, and that they may have technical problems on an ongoing basis. But maybe someday we'll find out what happened. I would like to present, through an amendment, our opinion on your draft tax laws, because the government has allowed food prices to go free, but it is only taking false measures to curb them. In the long term, the freezing of the official price has proved to be low even as a symptomatic treatment. And all of this is sensitive to the population; for example, the faster price increase in food prices in Hungary, according to the data of the HCSO, was still well above 20 percent in the last month. This is also very socially harmful, and lower-income households spend more of their income on food. And we add that the rise in food prices alone has been on the brink of hyperinflationary over the last few months, and it has started to rise from such a base this year as we see this year. According to the Democratic Coalition, the reduction of VAT could have been a temporary real help for troubled households and families. The highly high consumption tax rates in force in Hungary, including in European comparison, are particularly unsustainable for basic foods which are otherwise essential for healthy and balanced nutrition. Therefore, as I said, we tabled an amendment to the law. Because if the government does not take action as soon as possible, it does not reduce the VAT on basic foods, fear that tens of thousands more do not have access to basic food for life, because the price of diapers, baby food and bottle is the highest tax in all Europe, in Hungary, I would say that they provide the most brutal penalty tax. [[16.20]] In addition, I think that, in line with the Green Policy of the Democratic Coalition, we should add, in addition to the above mentioned, a reduced tax rate should also be applied to these instruments for the sake of environmental protection and sustainability. When they are in such a difficult situation, those who appear to be rich even during a difficult period and achieve significant results could also participate in the burden, with the help of orders made from the Hungarian state budget, which means they can build several billion HUF forks, and in this respect I think they can contribute to the taxes. Don't make the Hungarian people pay the price of their failed economic policy, don't force the families to spend again. In order to ensure budgetary balance, the Orbán government has imposed special taxes on the companies it selects at any rate, but has forgotten that gambling companies, companies that become rich from the concession, are not included in these lists; among them, for example, the casinos belong to this area, but it is also worth paying special attention to them, as four of them have only achieved dividends above HUF 12 billion in the last year. The Democratic Coalition would therefore encourage these companies to bear a higher burden in proportion to revenue in order to maintain the balance of public finances, to achieve a fair public burden, and to support those in need, and thus impose a separate tax. It is proposed that all such organisations covered by the concession law, such as the tobacco retail concession, the concession for gambling management, the casino concession, the motorway concession, the mine concession, the waste management concession, which all gain on people's fat, withdraw income from it, take money from them... so we recommend that these companies be taken into account and taxed as proposed by the Democratic Coalition Group. We have tabled our amendment in this regard, and I trust that you will support it and not just want to hurt people. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-06-15-108	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-15-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju's statement would have been more credible if he had voted in favour of the reduction in the VAT on basic foods submitted by the government over the last few years, and here the Parliament has decided on them. It would have been good if, for example, the Member had voted in favour of the reduction of VAT on milk or eggs or a number of basic foods, and then he might have said this speech one more credible thing. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us sets out the necessary amendments to the tax laws in relation to the 2024 budget and in relation to the same debate and general debate week. I must state that the Fidesz-KDNP government is the government of tax reductions, we have reduced taxes 80 times since 2010. The tax measures taken since 2010 have reduced the tax burden in Hungary by 4-5 percent of GDP. While previously the rate of social contribution tax was 27 per cent, from 1 January 2022 the employer's tax on wages was only 13 per cent. At the time of the left-wing governments, in the Gyurcsány tax system, the employer's tax burden on wages was charged by five types of taxes, which meant a total tax burden of at least 33.5 per cent on wages for the employer. 13 percent or 33.5 percent, it doesn't matter. Personal income tax is 15 percent, whereas at the time of the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the lowest rate of personal income tax was 18 percent. However, those who made only a little more were punished with a 36 percent personal income tax key. Even now, during the war and the complex energy crisis, the Fidesz-KDNP government does not increase taxes on labour. We maintain tax reductions for all work, and even this year, in 2023, we extended the tax reductions, because from January 2023, the number of people who are exempt from personal income tax grew with mothers who had children before the age of 30, which contributes to the increase in the annual net income of households with children as well as to the early birth of the first child. Next year, as we discussed at the budget this week, the government will spend HUF 185 billion to ensure that people under the age of 25 are free, and this year will increase the amount of HUF 155 billion. At the time of governance of the left, a young worker under the age of 25 received only about 50% of his gross salary, whereas now all workers under the age of 25 are completely free of average wage. The current bill brings to a legal level the exemption of mothers under the age of 30, the family benefit for families with long-term ill or severely disabled children, and the increase in the amount of tax-free compensation that can be ignored as income from 15 forints/km to 30 forints/km. I think I would like to open a parenthesis here, that by introducing the county lease and the country lease, and by doubling the cost of travel, we have done a great deal to facilitate people's access to work, because on many occasions, who goes a little further than in their own settlement, but away to work, it is a relief for him, the employer can pay him a greater fee, and at a very reduced price, the county and country leases are also available. Under the Emergency Government Regulation, as from 1 September 2022, paying agents do not have to pay a simplified public burden contribution of 13% to the paying agent. The bill initiates the maintenance of the measure without a time limit by introducing the current rule into law. With regard to excise duties, the European Union has adopted a mandatory EU tax minimum rules applicable to Member States. In order to comply with EU tax ceilings, and only from 1 January 2024 it is necessary to increase fuel rates. This is an EU obligation that we have to implement, as has the other Member States. Based on this, the rate of taxation for petrol and gas oil should be increased equally by HUF 32.55 and the rate for kerosene should be increased by HUF 28.35. The bill also provides for the extra profit of airlines, which is also raised to the legal level. The Fidesz-KDNP government has taken effective and effective steps since 2010 to reduce tax avoidance and whiteen the economy. The fight against the grey economy and tax evasion required a change of perspective against the logic of left-wing governments, which practically legalized the crime of living, constantly raised taxes, applied a complicated, constantly changing, bureaucratic and unpredictable tax system, and, many times, imposed unbearable taxes on businesses and Hungarian families. With the change of views of the national Christian Democratic Government, economic whitening became more widespread, which meant fairer, fairer competition in the market and more tax revenues to the State, from which further tax reductions could be made in recent years. The successful economic whitening measures include the introduction of online cash registers, online invoicing, the immediate payment system and the online control system for road freight transport. It is also important that every business must provide electronic payment from 2021 onwards. Administrative burdens and reduction of bureaucracy have also played an important role in economic whitening, with more than five million tax administrations now making declarations, which should only be accepted by taxpayers in most cases. Here I would like to thank the competent staff of the Ministry of Finance and the tax administration, because the tax return in May took place a few weeks ago, and many people were simplified by working ahead, and they only had to accept their tax returns. I'd like to thank the NAV and the Treasury staff for their work. The current bill will take further steps to whiten the economy and combat tax evasion. Among these, I would like to highlight the development of an e-relax system that gradually replaces the online cash register system. My fellow Member from Seberény has already said that this is a fundamental innovation, we in the European Union can be the first to successfully implement this system, since the so-called e-rest concept was already adopted by the government in December 2022. [[16.30]] The detailed rules of the e-relaxation concept will be set out in a ministerial regulation, with the necessary powers and interpretation provisions included in the proposal. The current bill therefore contains the necessary amendments to the tax laws relating to the 2024 budget, raises several important government measures to the legal level, complies with EU obligations, contains economic whiteening measures, and proposes a number of further changes to deregulation and legislative coherence. This is precisely why the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-15-110	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Sándor Szabó, on behalf of the MSZP Group. Mr. Messenger, please.
u2023-06-15-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, To whom what it means to amend tax laws. The pro-government representatives will obviously say that you are the government of tax reductions, and we will say that before 2010, there has never been a government that would have introduced so much tax. You are bringing the war conflict here in the first place for every tax increase, so that is why any tax increases are happening, which, of course, you are partly right about, and of course we are saying that they are forced to raise taxes not primarily because of this, but rather because of the government's failed economic policy. In fact, the vast majority of the proposal does not contain anything new; a significant part of the provisions are already in force in the form of an emergency government regulation, even if they have very little to do with the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. In this form, this is, in fact, the degrading of the role of Parliament, as the substantive decision has already been made, the Parliament actually plays a kind of accepting role in the adoption of tax laws. You could say that there's an act or puppetry going on. However, with regard to tax laws, two points need to be drawn to attention. One is the deterioration of the further financial situation of municipalities, which occurs primarily through the solidarity contribution or, as we say, through the solidarity tax, and the other by the gross increase in excise duty on fuels. The solidarity tax was introduced by the government in 2017, at that time it expected 39 billion. In 2019 this amount increased significantly, we are talking about HUF 237 billion this year, i.e. in 2023, and we also said in the budget debate that next year it will jump to HUF 307 billion. It can be said that there may not be any responsible farming that can bear such a burden, such an increase without serious injury, be it any municipality in a relatively good position in the country. And I am not saying this, but András Cser-Palkovics, the mayor of Székesfehérvár, who said a few weeks ago that he considered it too much to withdraw so much money, even if the municipality of Fehérvár is supported by individual decisions. Moreover, it is not even true what they do to cover up at a time like this, and what is a good idea is that municipalities with higher incomes will help smaller municipalities. We don't really see any of that. Although the title of solidarity is put there, the poorer settlements do not actually see much of these money. Rather, we can see that these funds buy, for example, Vodafone or a concrete dildo in Bosnyák square. But here we have seen, for example, that there is money to buy Libri through Mathias Corvinus College. We have put forward a proposal for the budget because of similar problems, which, by the way, aims to restore the financial stability of the municipalities, as there is a very large amount of withdrawal that is planned next year. Obviously, our proposal concerns a significant reduction in this solidarity contribution, leaving a significant proportion of personal income tax to the municipalities, as it was before 2019, as I believe that the car tax was also better placed than the municipalities, since the municipalities were able to develop their infrastructure from these taxes. This was the only kind of tax that could otherwise have provided additional room for manoeuvre for the municipalities and made some kind of development. And here's the excise duty I was talking about, because it's the other tax rate that the government raises significantly. Of course, it refers primarily to the need for this because of the Union. However, the reality is in stark contrast with this, since the EU directive on excise duty on fuel products does not require such a level of scrapping. On the other hand, it says that the euro exchange rate applicable on the first working day of October should be used to determine the minimum rate of the tax, so this amount depends on the exchange rate of HUF/euro. Although the rate of HUF/EUR valid on the first working day of October 2023 is not yet known, because we do not see it, as appropriate, but the increase of HUF 32.5 per litre foreseen in the proposal is adjusted to the euro rate of HUF 425 for petrol and gas oil. If less is to be paid for a euro, as is the case now, then there is no need for such a tax increase. In this context, I consider it necessary to establish that the EU excise duties on petrol and gas oil have not changed since 2010. If domestic legislation is to be touched in order to comply with the EU, it is only because the forint has weakened a lot since 2010. It does not belong closely to the negotiation of the current tax laws, but it is worth considering who has the responsibility of ruining the forint from the Orbán government or from the central bank led by György Matolcsy, provided, of course, that they do not want to blame the governments before 2010. Overall, it can therefore be said that the increase in excise duty on fuels is highly exaggerated. Not only do they increase the taxes of Hungarian families, but they do not even take responsibility for it, but they also try to pin this on the European Union as much as anything else. So the question is: are you going to set a HUF 32 increase because you expect the euro price to be HUF 425 on 1 October, then we are going to be in a lot of trouble, or are you going to try again and again to sabotage the taxpayers? The emphasis on these two items is obviously important when discussing tax laws, whether it is the future development of the financial stability of municipalities or even a significant increase in excise duty, but there is much else to talk about. In particular, on these two grounds, the MSZP will not support the amendment of the tax laws, taking into account these two issues. Thank you for listening.
u2023-06-15-112	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to István Apáti, from the group of our country. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-15-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We can safely say that the government is constantly making significant tax increases on a number of tax categories. Last time they did this a few weeks ago, the Parliament was completely bypassed by regulation. To say that you are in favour of continuous tax cuts, and that you are the government of tax reductions, to say the least, a slip, a twist, a little stronger and a little more true, and that you are a big lie. We could explain for a long time why, how and how much more of the medicines will cost, because they will not put any obstacles to passing on sectoral special taxes. So there is very well-selling communication on the issue of otherwise justly imposed, and if it could not be passed on to consumers, then even if it were still completely successful, we cannot be satisfied with the fact that in the end this is paid by Hungarian voters, Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. So it doesn't make much sense that this is the seventh, or who knows what kind of skin is drawn from people, especially in such a domestic and international political and economic environment; I am thinking primarily of war and associated risks and uncertainties. I'd like to highlight two issues, both of which are incredibly fond of my eyes. We are about to experience the first anniversary of the shame that one of the most successful, I would say, of the past 13 years, of the most successful legal institution of the past 13 years, the katá, which enjoyed a huge popularity, because at last there was enough tax returns on a beer mat that had been linked to this. There's a lot more people who joined him than you've ever appreciated, and every year he's made a lot more revenue than you've calculated in advance. This was a truly rare success story, but last June or early July you ploughed it from Monday to Tuesday, eliminated it, and you have to pay a minimum of double or triple tax and other public burdens to those who have since changed to flat-rate taxes or even more administrative, even more complex, even costly forms of taxation. They did so at the beginning of an emerging economic crisis, when they should have done exactly the opposite when they should have helped people find escape routes. [[16.40]] In fact, it would have been best if they hadn't done anything if they had left the rules of the catalog the way they did, or they could have done so, only those who remained in it, the number of those who remained in it had fallen significantly, so it fell back to a fraction of them by raising the revenue limit. So they should have opened the gates wider, instead they were virtually locked away from the katás taxpayers. I would like to ask the representative of the government present, how you have experienced, how you have lived this past year. Do you really consider it successful, fair, fair, and justified that this remaining opportunity has been taken away from the smallest entrepreneurs? I wonder if the sly calculation behind this was that more money was drawn from businesses, but it didn't fail, because in my humble opinion, and in the view of our country, this more-oriented intention became the less, and the more modest kata, the less, was the more of it for years. So here's the proportionality or the figure of speech that I think less would have been more. In addition to the fact that the black economy was likely to be fed to a significant extent, as not a few may have decided that they would rather do this activity black, and it was entirely unjustified that this legal institution was left only in the context of a catalysmic entrepreneur-natural person. Not to mention my recurring thought, I am bringing it into the debate only at the level of mention, that it was considered very important, because they thought that if the former ones paid double or triple taxes, provided that everyone was officially carrying out their activities, this was very important, they hoped for a few ten billion forints. It is also very important for you under the heading "whitening the economy" that the smallest enterprise, the smallest enterprise within micro-enterprises, should be connected to the online system of the NAV. In the context of this debate, I would like to ask you that you do not feel an insurmountable desire, an urge to connect casinos into the online system, the online system of the NAV, and the casinos that are also part of the interests of leading politicians. I know this is a very serious obstacle, but if we expect the smallest to come to the cash register when paying taxes and pay the amazing tax burden, why not expect that from those who are shooting thousands of billions a year? They'd still have a lot of profit, even if it wasn't worth running a casino. Why aren't they strapped in? Obviously, it creates a system or conditions of illegal or black-party financing that remains very important. The other interesting question that caught my eye in examining the numbers is a significant reduction in the burden for MOL. Of course, in the current economic environment, when we see that, despite the fuel price cap and the extra-profit tax last year, a national oil company has made a profit of HUF 628 billion in MOL, I say that, despite the price cap and the extra-profit tax, the state has decided to pay a dividend of HUF 280 billion, and why the government considers it important to reduce the mining fee from 334 billion to 192 billion on the one hand, and the additional HUF 160-170 billion on the other hand, if we add these two together, we will see that MOL's payment obligation will be reduced by HUF 272-312 billion on the other hand. The mining fee has also been reduced to a very significant extent, benefiting MOL, and reducing to a very significant extent the extra profit tax that is made up of the differences between the US's Brent's and Russian's Urals. What do they get for this, say, by Hungarian car owners? What do retail or entrepreneurial customers get for this? You will receive that, as you announced that the excise duty on petrol and gas oil will increase significantly from 1 January 2024, MOL has expected an increase of approximately HUF 40 or at least HUF 40 per litre in petrol and gas oil prices. Practically fully pass it on to Hungarian consumers. So it seems that one of the most unthankful companies is the leadership of MOL, because they do not respond to these preferences in the way they should be expected in a normal country. On one side, they receive a reduction in the burden between HUF 270-112 billion, a reduction in expenditure through their public relations or government relations, and they do not conclude that they will at least partially absorb the extra burden resulting from the increase in excise duty, they will also pass it on to consumers and customers as if they did not receive a forint reduction. Either the state is raising expectations, or the MOL is actually doing this as a state in the state, because it's basically deciding how much it wants to spend, say, drilling and exploring oil and natural gas deposits? Last year a sum of 40 billion was made, so last year it was said that 40 billion forints were spent exploring gas and oil deposits in 2023. At some points in the country, from Ba to Vecses, you can hear how this happened. The way they drilled me down, they found me right away, but then the news went quiet, you don't know what MOL is really up to. If you get such a reduction, let's say the state could require that, compared to their options, a multiple of the modest HUF 40 billion expenditure is used to increase self-sufficiency in MOL serving Hungarian national security and national economy, especially in natural gas, to the greatest extent possible. At present, we can satisfy up to 15-20 percent of the annual gas consumption of 10 billion cubic metres of natural gas in Hungary, as far as I know, from domestic stocks, although there is likely to be much more gas lying in the bottom of the excellent Hungarian soil; much more. All I want to do is think about the macoon trench, but I don't want to get into it, because I don't want to have mine engineering or gas engineering debates here. But you didn't do anything to stop the dependence on Russian gas when the North Stream is blown up, when the Ukrainians threaten to blow up other pipelines in the macoon ditch, and say that out of the 10 billion, only 1.5-2 billion cubic metres of gas, or perhaps 3 billion cubic metres of gas coming from the direction of Croatia, you will do nothing to recover a location, even in the Hungarian state's hands, where 600 billion cubic metres of gas are inhabiting. The 600 billion cubic meters of gas would mean at least 60 years of safe supply to Hungary, and this is just the macoon trench, we have not taken a step in any direction, we have not talked about the mold site, we have not talked about the South Transdanubian, Zala or Somogy sites, we have not talked about anything else. When you get so much discount from MOL to bathe in opportunities, recruit in opportunities and discounts, receive an annual reduction of HUF 300 billion, you might also be able to impose obligations, because I understand that they feel that they have the right to know this attitude when certain communities feel that they have only rights, not really, but then have obligations! I understand that this is also a political and economic road to the benefit of the ever-regulating government, and I understand everything, but I do understand that this company should be more burdened on the basis of its obligations here, because if it were someone, they would be able to deal with it without any problems. It is not that our country would want to eliminate MOL, it is not that there is no such pursuit or such thought, but the fact that they could be obliged to bear a much greater burden, to bear a public burden, I am absolutely certain. So I look forward to hearing from the representative of the government. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-15-114	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, No one has made any further comments, and this is the end of the general debate. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-15-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for the suggestions and support expressed in the debate, and I would like to respond to some of the criticisms that have been raised in a few words. [[16.50]] First of all, Mr Varju's suggestion that the right way to reduce food prices is to reduce VAT. The Member is no longer here, but I hope he will follow what has been said in the debate. As has been said during the debate, the Fidesz government has made quite a lot of VAT cuts, and we have been able to draw on the experience of measuring the VAT reduction on a pharmacy scale, because it is not clear that it is possible to achieve it in prices. So we were able to look at meat products, eggs, dairy products, fish meat when there were VAT cuts on how consumer prices could react to these reductions, and we saw that this reduction was not self-evident. As we have said many times, demand and supply, agricultural and climate conditions, and the international war situation all affect this supply and demand relationship. They have a much stronger impact on prices than on VAT. It was just in the case of eggs that it was beautiful to see, unfortunately, that the VAT reductions had increased prices in relation to one or two months, so in many cases, if VAT reductions are not given carefully, then a temporary help can be provided if traders pass this on to prices, but the more characteristic is that they do not give this reduction, so it is a very serious budget loss, but it is not helpful to the public in many cases. What, though, can help the population? In response to extreme situations, we use a price cap to fix the price of certain products. This certainly goes to consumer prices, unlike, where appropriate, the VAT reduction, and the other way to protect yourself is to try to increase the income of individuals with other subsidies, i.e. by raising wages and paying taxes on declining incomes, and by supporting supply from the other side. So if we want prices to go down firmly, the Hungarian manufacturing industry and the Hungarian industry must be supported so that they can produce these products more and more efficiently, so that more products are placed on the market, and obviously prices will fall at that time. So I think that many times it has been proven that VAT cuts are an extremely expensive and inefficient way of influencing prices to consumers. Such instruments as the Member mentioned, or for which VAT reductions would apply, would result in a loss of around HUF 300-350 billion in the budget, and there is a good chance that this package of measures would support the merchant sector. Instead, we believe that prices should be controlled by family support and strengthening the incomes of the population and by strengthening the supply system. Mr Varju also mentioned his recommendation to tax concession firms. I would like to point out to the Member that there is a concession fee in the concession system, so the constable always pays for the opportunity he makes here under the concession, and this fee takes into account the activity that the consort does, its profitability and the amount that the State is entitled to. So, in fact, these items, listed by Congressman Varju, pay their share of the central budget in each case, not in the form of extra-profits, but in the form of a concession fee. Mr Sándor Szabó indicated that the government had raised a lot of taxes. I have now looked at the relatively objective figures of what was real, and a tax burden on GDP is perhaps the best indicator of the tax level of a country, the tax burden in a country, the percentage of taxes in proportion to GDP. This was above 40 per cent at the height of 2009-10, which now decreased to 33.5 per cent at the beginning of the Covid period. So it is clear that this tax burden has decreased from 40 per cent to 33.5 per cent of GDP. Of course, as a result of the Covid and the subsequent economic downturn, we had to take a tax measure or two. This indicator has indeed increased from 33.5 to 34.5 percent, so there is indeed a time when a little more tax measures have led us to collect more tax revenues, but I would remind you that we started at a level above 40 percent. When it comes to the fact that many tax measures have been taken by the government or have been introduced by a lot of taxes, let me remind you here that a wide range of businesses, taxes that affect a wide range of people, are constantly and tenuously reduced. Until 2021, 11 taxes were reduced, so the number of taxes decreased by 11. What has happened now is a year and a half after the Covid crisis, and that is the introduction of targeted and very effective taxes for extraprofit. We are trying to channel extra-profits into the financing of the economy in practice, and that is why we are not taxing broad layers in general, but we are aiming for the most effective means that are likely to be removed from the budget's financing side in the medium term. So here with regard to tax reductions, I think that we will continue the trend that we have been able to achieve in the past. With regard to the increase in excise duty, let me remind you that there has been no increase in the rate in Hungary since 2010, and it is clear that the EU's direction is to increase the weight of environmental taxes, and the excise directive is also under review in the EU, and I will not reveal a great secret that the Commission is planning to introduce much higher rates in the near future than those currently in force. In fact, we should have reached the rate currently in force on 1 January of this year, and, with the risk of infringement proceedings, we have not taken this increase from 1 January this year, so we are practically already six months late with this tax increase, and the only regular exchange rate we have today is the exchange rate mentioned by the Member on 3 October last year. This is what can be incorporated into the legislation, and that is what this draft tax law now contains. We believe that it is necessary to take this step, because we have been fighting with the Commission for years in the debate on infringement proceedings, and we see now that, as the EU rules are likely to be tightened in the future, we must now take this tax increase in order to adapt to the EU tax levels, which are likely to rise significantly. Let me also respond to the question of Mr Abbot. He also raised some of the tax lifting measures that I think I reacted to earlier, but he also raised the kata. Perhaps he said that we received a lot or unexpected amount of tax revenue from the kata. Indeed, this was the case, and there was an unexpected increase in tax revenues on the register, but, unexpectedly, much tax revenue fell out of other tax lines, as the trend has become that jobs have changed from employment. It would not even be a problem if the smallest entrepreneurs found the tax system that was best suited to them, but that was not the case, but the real beneficiaries of the Kata were large companies, large companies who did not, in rare cases, hire up to a thousand small-scale entrepreneurs, obviously former employees, and they continued the same activities as they had done before, only last week they were employees, and next week they were katás entrepreneurs. So, in fact, the advantage of this set of rules was not for small entrepreneurs, nor for the budget, but for the relatively large business community who took advantage of the very positive nature of this system. There have been several fine-tunings in the system. We have introduced several limits in order to bring these unwanted steps back to life, but unfortunately, these large companies have always adapted, so we had to return to the original legislative goal with a very determined step, and it was that the Katás entrepreneur, if he sells to a private person, should meet the most flexible, simple and generous tax system possible, which is the case, so he still has to pay a fixed tax of HUF 50 thousand at the same time, which is basically HUF 18 million. And those who got out of the kata may not be at all sure that something very bad has happened to them, because those who have worked before and are likely to have returned to employment, have probably received the corresponding contributions, and have increased the basis for their supply, and have the security that employment means. If you were a real entrepreneur, I'd write to myself 223,000 flat-rate taxpayers. So they didn't go into an extremely burdensome tax system, but within the Hungarian tax system, the smallest entrepreneurs still have a flat-rate tax system, which can actually amount to tax exemptions up to HUF 1.2 million. [[17.00]] This means that a lot of catnip entrepreneurs are in a better position with a flat-rate tax than they were in as a catnip. This was typically the case for side jobs; as a flat-rate taxpayer, the tax exemption could be reached by a lower revenue limit. I think that very, very many entrepreneurs have benefited from this change. The real beneficiaries were the cataclysms: they were able to meet the limit raised to HUF 18 million with an even more favourable set of rules than before. Their number has also increased to 134 thousand, so I can say that the number of clicks has decreased by a third, and 134 thousand clicks still means that it is an extremely wide layer that can take advantage of this very positive, forward-looking tax system. And then let me finally respond to Mr Apáti's comments on MOL. Although I have not prepared specific numbers, I may not tell you the secret that MOL pays most taxes in Hungary, and the tax system, I have just referred to it that it has very cizellated, very ambitious measures in the past. Let me give you two interesting examples. One is the mining fee you said, and the other is the extra profit tax on the price difference between Ural and Brent oil. The mining fee works in such a way that if the market prices are high, there is a good chance that the mining companies will be able to pay a high mining fee; if prices fall, then obviously a lower fee will be paid. The fact that the amount of the mining fee may be halved or increased in the next budget under the same set of rules, if any, is likely to result from a change in market prices. This is also seen in the budget in this case. Another best example is the Ural/Brent tax: this tax is 95 per cent, so if there is a difference between the two oil prices, 95 per cent of it is taken away by the government. A huge amount of this year's budget has been allocated, and a significantly smaller amount has been put into the next year's budget, i.e. the year 24 but the reason for this is that the rule remains unchanged is that 95 percent of this difference will continue to be taken away; in return, this difference will continue to decrease. That is why, where appropriate, the amount on the budget line can be halved. If the extent of this extra-profit economic phenomenon is halved, then the amount of tax will also be halved, so this legal institution will operate as simply as it is. And, overall, it can be said that if we look at the tax burden of the largest Hungarian companies, then the past period has put a very, very heavy burden on these companies. Even if we look at it in an international comparison, the Hungarian tax system has put quite a burden on energy companies and companies that were the biggest winners in extra-profit production. So it can be said that in an international comparison there was a very high tax burden on some companies. And as I said earlier, this is the result of a temporary economic period when unexpected results are realised in some companies; on these, the government imposed an extra profit tax, and, as promised earlier, the phasing-out of these will happen. Many extra-profitists are constructed by leading themselves out if the extra-profit itself disappears; the rest, which is not constructed in this way, and there, given the burden-bearing capacity of the budget, is rapidly or at a slower pace, but these taxes will be kept out. Thank you again for the valuable criticisms and for your support for the presentation. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-15-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. He withdrew his statement after the agenda, so I would like to inform you that the next session of the Parliament will take place on 16 June 2023. Thank you for the work of your colleagues; this session is hereby closed.
