u2023-06-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I salute my fellow Members and all those who monitor our work. The 25th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be here to help me. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-13-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The image of the caring state is a wonderful vision. We all want to live in a country where the state provides a calm life, a predictable day. But in view of the morning clock, I suggest that we wake up and look at the reality, and see where Hungary is in the 13th year of the government of Fidesz. The way things work for us right now is that the landlord goes to the village and tells the villager that if the numbers turn out that way, I'll give it to you. However, the state does not give the basic care as a gift, it is due, and the cost of this has been paid by taxes, through contributions, and consequently the State has obligations, mandatory duties, and such obligations and mandatory duties are also to provide catering and hospital meals, and I even go on with half a thought, to provide quality catering and quality hospital meals. But what happens if power sinfully neglects all this? For example, they get moldy bread and rotten cuts at the hospital, even though this careful farmer doesn't even throw them in front of the piglets, because after a while that pig turns upside down. In Hungary, this is what patients get, those in need of care in the hospital. This happened the other day in the gastroenterological department of St. John's Hospital. It just gives the story a special refraction that it happened right in the gastroenterology department. You've been hearing for years, seeing patients get unworthy food in hospitals; Facebook groups are forming, which shows that they're barely suitable for human consumption, and it's not at all apparent in the draft budget for 2024 that the government is planning any changes to these issues. What do you think, fellow Members, that the problems that lead to moldy bread and rotten meat will grow or decrease? I'm convinced we're right to be pessimists. But it's not much better in the field of feeding. The state gives less than 4 percent more to support the children's feeding tasks of the already bled municipalities than last year or this year, although we know precisely that the price of the 2022 food inflation was officially 26 per cent, reaching 50 per cent in February 2023, which means that over two years, the aggregate inflation of the two years is over 70 per cent. Compared to this, food inflation is expected again to be around 25-30 percent this year, even considering that the government is planning a downward trend in inflation developments. This lack of money will inevitably come down on the school cafeteria, which brings with it a lower quality of food for children, for whom the government is extremely concerned at communication level only at communication level, although we can agree that a hungry child will not be fed with any national consultation or any other government propaganda. Dear House, The government is responsible for this unblessed state. They've had 13 years to change the state of health, the situation of public catering. So what now? Moldy bread and rotten chops. My question is, is there any chance that they could face this situation that you created? Do you plan to give patients decent food in hospitals so that they do not get plastered, such as toilet paper, or that doctors and nurses do not leave health care because of unworthy conditions? Why don't they help the children to a fair degree so that the school cafeteria can receive healthy, quality food? I know exactly what the government will say. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It really doesn't matter because they've learned how to spread lying propaganda.
u2023-06-13-2	Thank you very much.
u2023-06-13-3	The thing is, after all, I'm interested in one thing, how you're going to improve the level of catering in hospitals and catering. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-13-4	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2023-06-13-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, It is very important for the government that those who are in the hospital are in schools, in the best conditions, which is why it has also been important for us to renovate hospitals in recent years. 91 hospitals have been renovated in whole or in part throughout the country, and 54 clinics, which are also attended by patients. Almost every year, there were applications in the Ministry of Finance and once the EMMI that aimed at kitchen renovation to the municipal authorities. It was also possible to obtain funds from the Hungarian village program to renovate a local cuisine, precisely so that they could prepare healthier dishes, as cheaply as possible, as modernly as possible, using as little energy as possible, with as little overhead as possible. Healthy school meals were also very important to the government. On the one hand, because it was not acceptable for us to think that someone at school might be doing badly because they didn't get a decent breakfast at home or they didn't give him brunch, they didn't give him lunch. That is why we started to give him about eight out of ten children free of charge in the smallest age, that is, in kindergarten, because we laid down a general, easier-to-be-acceptable condition for who is free to eat, exactly how much per capita income within the family can be done on the basis of a statement, so there is no need to ask for a variety of certifications, precisely so that every child can obtain it in the nursery, kindergarten, school, which is necessary to be able to pay attention and focus. [[9.10]] Of course, there was also a need to increase the resources: at the beginning of our governance, HUF 31 billion was available for public catering, HUF 31 billion is now available for catering purposes, and of course this will continue to grow in the next year. So the increase is greater than it was before, and the increase is even twice as high as it was before, since we have added more than 70 billion to 31 billion in recent years so that more children can get healthier food. We have also sought to favour local suppliers, not from a distance, not from a distance, but from a place, for local farmers to have a safe place to sell, and less transport costs, less transport problems along the way, so that local farmers can cook in local cuisine for local children. This was also our aim and, of course, also to make food healthier, which, on the one hand, obviously means healthier recipes, fewer e-labels and as much fresh vegetables and fruits as possible. In order for all children to get used to healthy food, there is much we can do at school. The school milk scheme and the school fruit scheme help. The school milk scheme is present in 1800 educational institutions and the school fruit and vegetables programme is present in more than 2300 educational institutions. At the beginning of our administration, the total budget of the school milk and fruit scheme was 600 million HUF. This is now more than HUF 5 billion, honourable Member. In order to reach as many children as possible, both fruit and vegetables have increased their resources by almost ninefold. This means that, in the framework of this, more than 7 million litres of milk is delivered to children, 55 million portions of fruit, vegetables or fruit juice are delivered to children to receive and get used to the nutrients necessary for their natural development at school, through daily physical education, so that they can have a sport, a exercise that they like when they grow up, which they are happy to do, which they also enjoy; on the other hand, there should be vegetables, fruits that they also like at school if they do not like at home, and a healthy lifestyle, a healthy way of life can develop at school with varied meals, healthy food, many vegetables, lots of fruits, lots of milk and besides some kind of exercise. As for hospitals, health care, it is also very important that everyone is given the necessary, often special food for their recovery, so it is not just a requirement that they are of good quality, but that they also serve special healing, and that they are not at risk because of some sensitivity. In 2010, when we started our governance, the budget spent HUF 1198 billion on health care was now raised from 2800; from 1198 to 2800. Most of this increase is obviously covered by a very large increase in doctor's wages and a large increase in nurse's wages. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But we provide additional resources so that every hospital can solve a decent meal locally with a decent amount of money. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-13-6	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Tamás Mellar, representative of the Dialogue, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, József Eötvös, Ágoston Trefort, Loránd Eötvös, Klebelsberg Kuno, Albert Apponyi, Bálint Homan, and a list of famous people who were ministers of religion and public education in Hungary in the past [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] who contributed to the culture and scientific development of the Hungarian nation with their outstanding intellectual achievements. Compared to this, after 2022, the Minister of Public Education in Hungary is a police general whose scientific and/or cultural achievements I cannot report; I may or may not be able to report on this. Minister Sándor Pintér certainly gained our Prime Minister's trust that he is the great peacemaker, he is the great solver; where there is a serious problem, they call Sándor Pintér and he will solve it. And our Home Secretary is like the one-time man, the one-time hammer man who sees nails everywhere and everything, always uses his hammer and slaps it back and forth. Well, I would like to draw attention to the fact that education is not such a simple matter, it is much more complicated than that, it cannot be solved with a few hammers and force. Last week, the educational portfolio presented the status law, the law of the teacher's career program, to solve the problems raised in education. I have no doubt that the two-thirds Fidesz majority in Parliament will adopt this law without hesitation, but nothing will be resolved. The Civil Public Education Platform, which brings together 54 educational-related organisations, gave a 20-page opinion on the status law. In this he found, inter alia, that there was no meaningful social debate and consultation on the status law; it was a mere collusion, especially with the pseudo-organisations created by Fidesz. I would just like to mention, as a footnote, that where a successful education reform was carried out, for example in the Scandinavian countries, there was a very long consultation of the education reform, the education programme. This could cover up to a year or two in order to ensure that all interested organisations of interest gave their consent and their blessing, and also the opposition parties, in order that, if there is to be a change of government, the educational law should continue to remain, not have to start over and again, as in Hungary, for example. That's the only reason it would have been worth taking longer. In the view of the Civil Public Education Platform, the Status Act significantly reduces the professional and legal autonomy of institutions, teachers and parents and further undermines the quality and effectiveness of education and education work. So our Prime Minister, as a first-generation intellectual, knows exactly how important a good education system is for the creation of opportunities, for the rise of talented poor children. And you also know how important it is for the country to catch up to increase the number of educated heads of people. So, not out of ignorance, but because he is destroying the education system, but rather because he has created a system of national cooperation in which uneducated auxiliary and trained workers are needed, working for low wages for domestic or foreign capitalists in low value-added sectors, such as battery factories. And, by the way, these people can easily be manipulated, politically misled by Rogán's propaganda prices. In reply, the Secretary of State will certainly talk about how important battery factories are, since electric car business is the future. In this connection, I would like to ask him: "Why didn't we focus on the onboard computer and software development in terms of electric cars?" [[9.20]] Perhaps not because it would require educated heads of men, and the educated heads of men are dangerous to you? Thank you very much.
u2023-06-13-8	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Mellar. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2023-06-13-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We may not come to you with questions about education, but you were an excellent lecturer, honourable Member. He said he looked down on the police, looked down on the factory workers, looked down on everyone, you're educated, you're smart, you're informed, and everyone else listen to your voice and do what you think you're doing, because your education is sweeping everyone off. Let me add a little bit to your education, honourable Member: do you remember which ministry did Klebelsberg Kunó run in Hungary in 1921-22? The Home Office. Wow. Congressman, I've said something new to you. Klebelsberg Kunó was Minister of Interior and became Minister of Culture in Hungary. So what you just said about the man who runs the Home Office, the man with the hammer, he's got a hammer everywhere, and he hits everything, so is that true of Klebelsberg Kuno? Or is the other part true, honourable Member? The problem with this arrogant, arrogant, self-aware attitude is that it offends a lot of people, honourable Member, and is trapped in itself. 'Cause the reason you can't look down on the cops is because the cops are all hammer-hacking people who hack around. About the 40,000 people who guard your safety so that they can go out on the street at night, guarding the southern border on the roads, trying to keep order, who catches criminals, these people you're talking about are hammered people? The people who made the battery in your cell phone, you talk of uneducated, controlled people? Well, how would you have a smartphone if those people didn't fix the battery that's inside? Do you use a battery phone? It's working. Do you use a laptop with a battery? It's working. Do you have a battery in your car? Yeah. And you're saying these are uneducated, controlling people? You look down on them, you think they're so inferior, it hurts me to listen to this, honourable Member. Of course, the issue of education is important to us, and we want more people to get as much knowledge as possible. But the pursuit of knowledge does not mean that he despises those who work as policemen or physical workers in a factory. Well, thank them for keeping you safe. Thank them that our country, Hungary, is the 13th safest country in the world, and do not talk about them like that! In their name, too, I challenge you to call them hammer-hacking people. There has been no social consultation on the new teacher's career law, you, honourable Member, quote one of the petitions. Well, even in Brussels, the people of the European Commission could not deny that there was no broad consultation, honourable Member. You are even more Brussels than Brussels on this issue. Name one case in Hungary, one when there has been a broader consultation in Hungary than in the last six months. Give me a law. Give me a year when there was a broader discussion. We asked all Hungarian teachers digitally in three rounds, and first they answered 25 thousand, then 33,000, then 18,000; then all Hungarian parents, and more than 130,000 answered. We talked to the unions in ten rounds, and there were 21 rounds of negotiations. We invited the opposition parties, invited the public education round table, invited the National Public Education Council, consulted the National Student Parliament, parental organisations and teaching organisations. Then, at your request, we even invited your experts to a special meeting. We asked seven, and three came, and before time one left, two left, one on the left, and one on the left. There's a lot to discuss before, but when we ask you out, no one comes. Well, how's that? ! You're saying there's not enough negotiation here. When I had it, and the dialogue expert could have come, I don't know exactly which two were left, I think the MSZP and Mi's remained there the whole time, and they didn't stay there. And then you stand up here in Parliament and say there's no negotiation? And when your expert invites you, won't you come? Or when we call your party, will they just stand up and leave after a while? The new law reduces autonomy. By making a meaningful decision on the wages of teachers who are on the faculty, the school director will have unprecedented autonomy for each school and for each school. You say that this is not the case with regard to regulations and pedagogical programmes. Honourable Congressman, In 1997, the Left introduced the situation that remained until 2012, which is also enshrined in the current law, what is approved by the faculty of the various regulations and pedagogical programmes and what is approved by the maintainer. This system was created by the left in 1997. Then, for two cycles, Hungarian public education worked in the same system, and you now say that this is a mockery of autonomy and that autonomy is damaged. And he now nods to the system that the left has practiced for two cycles in Hungary. Holiness, congressman, hypocrisy! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-10	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Mr President Novák, representative of Mi Hazank, also spoke before the agenda on the title of "current public affairs". You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, While smugglers are released from prisons, field guards protecting their country are condemned in Hungary. Out of 2,600 inmates, 700 are now in the process of being released. This should be called amnesty, but the government is lying about being put into so-called reintegration custody. Are smugglers in custody when they can leave the country? What kind of custody would that be? ! Most of them are Romanian and Serbian citizens, who will obviously continue where they left off at the Hungarian border. Recently, the Austrian Foreign Minister also said that the release of convicted smugglers will benefit the affected members of organised crime. I have to tell him the truth. Last month, I also listened to the legitimate criticisms of their respective parliamentary representatives, members of their defence committee, at the Embassy of Austria. And the Slovak Speaker said a few months ago that the Hungarian-Slovak border should have been closed because migrants roam around like mice. The southern border of Hungary therefore does not work. Of course, there are some things we disagree with them about. For example, the migrants that the European Union intends to force on our country would be sent to Africa by the Hungarian Movement. We consider the agreement between Britain and Rwanda to be an example, because Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. Unfortunately, the government also supports legal immigration, in addition to the release of smugglers, so the resettlement of migrant workers arriving from different continents. In fact, they are planning to vote on a migrant import law here today. The only solution to illegal migrants is halfway through. The border fence proposed by László Toroczkai as mayor of Asotthalom in early 2015 was built, but the breakthrough migrants are only being escorted back, thousands a week to try again. So far, the Hungarian state has spent 650 billion forints on southern border protection against illegal migrants, and the government has a vain fantasy that the European Union will pay for this. It hurts, but I have to say, illegal migrants are not protected by border fences, they are protected by the Hungarian people, not by the military or the police, but by the low wages. However, this, in my view, is not going to remain so. We do not think that it can stay this way, but you, with the migrant import law, are aimed at reducing at least the real value of Hungarian wages with such inflation. Our Homeland Movement has three suggestions, and now it has three questions. Would the government support a restraining order against officers or soldiers who defend the border? So, not only for self-defense purposes, but also for the protection of the country, we would also give the right to use weapons to act with sufficient deterrent force against violent border offenders. The first one, of course, must be the warning shot, but the time has passed for the invaders to be escorted out, taxied, and escorted back to the start line, or even fed in prison. Would the government support millions of HUF on-site fines for those crossing the fence? After all, migrants often have thousands of euros in their pockets, which would end up with smugglers, but their confiscation would quickly discourage migrants from trying in Hungary. Billions could be saved in border protection with deterrent sanctions, and it would also be more effective to reduce continent conquerors. So we must not release smugglers, but, if possible, keep them away from the costs, of course, to spare Hungarian public finances, but the first is to protect the Hungarian border. [[9.30]] Of course, in many cases, liberal international defenders or, in my opinion, abetting organisations in the event of such a fine will certainly scream that Hungary is robbing migrants, but at least they will avoid us by far. And finally, the government would support the seizure of mobile phones from border crossings as a sign of crime, as it would also facilitate the detection of smugglers, and it could also discourage migrants from trying on us. Dear Government, I've been pushing for them more than once in the government, but so far, I've only experienced separation. Does the government support the proposals for solutions to the Hungarian Movement, which could save hundreds of billions? Please, instead of the usual misconceptions or at least [[Bence Rétvári: Overtalk!]] at least illegal migrants have a deterrent effect [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] answer your on-the-spot fine, in particular whether you support it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-06-13-12	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2023-06-13-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me draw attention to the 180-degree turn and total contrast between the first and fourth minutes of your speech. He said in the fourth minute that the time had passed for human smugglers to be fed in prison, and then, three minutes before that, he talked about why hundreds of smugglers would be out of the country. Well, you said it was time to feed the smugglers in prison. [[Previous Novak: That's why we have suggestions! Dóra Dúró: to Africa! Africa!]] Exactly, honourable Member, we are in a position... [[Dr. István Apáti: Who said they should be fed in prison?!]] we are in a position to be one of the few European Union countries that comply with European law. Most of the proceedings are being conducted against us for violating European law, but yet we are the ones who respect the European legal system most with it, among other things. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] to protect the European Union's external border and to carry out all the procedures necessary for external border protection. And as a result, Hungarian prisons have become, right, Hungary, but it may be the most multicultural medium in Europe; if you walk out here, into the building of the Soros University a few blocks away, which, of course, has fled to Vienna, but still can be found here in Downtown, you can't find citizens from as many countries as smugglers from all the countries in Hungary have been sitting and sitting in Hungarian prisons. The citizens of 73 countries were locked up in Hungarian prisons because of human trafficking; the citizens of so many countries are probably not even in the Soros University, but the Soros Throne Prince may try to advance the university's activities. Seriously, he was in the Hungarian prisons for about one in every nine prisoners because of human trafficking. Hungarian prisons began to become overfilled because 2-3 thousand smugglers had to be held there. And we remember that around 2020, there are 19 thousand inmates in about 13 thousand in Hungarian prisons in one year, and they claimed 2.6 billion forints of compensation, and even did not demand, Hungarian prisoners in prisons in Strasbourg received it because they said that the treatment was inhumane because they were so crowded in prisons. By complying with European law, we have approached the fact that we will have to pay the smugglers because they are sitting in Hungarian prisons and, of course, we have not received any funds from the Union for border protection or detention costs. They therefore expect us to act, but at the same time they do not give us any cost for this action. That is why the Hungarian Government has decided, and I ask that it does not, by chance, say that amnesty and release, because their punishment is not released, no one's punishment is released. [[Dr. István Apáti: Aah! Mr. Novak intervenes.]] They must leave the territory of Hungary within 72 hours, so that, if this is stated in their punishment, they are also expelled from the territory of Hungary, and if they do not do so, or if they ever return to Hungary, they will continue to serve their sentence under stricter conditions. [[Ancient Novak: Oh, yeah!]] So this prison sentence continues to float over their heads, just to quote the Foreman of Novak Elek, the time passed over the feeding of smugglers in prison. Why have Hungarian taxpayers been paying for this cost for eight years only and only? [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] The Union does not contribute, no one else does, honourable Member. [[First of Novak: That's why we need a fine! The president knocks on the table.]] We therefore told these people to leave Hungary. [[Dr. István Apáti: Go with God!]] They cannot walk freely on the streets of Hungary; if they ever happen again in Hungary, if they ever set foot in Hungary again, they will return to prison at that moment. [[Who believes that?!]] And they must serve their sentence in serious circumstances. So please don't even say the word "release" or "amnesty" to those who continue to be punished. [[And then let's hear the answer. The president knocks on the table.]] As regards the three questions on which the honourable Member has already received the answer several times, I will, of course, repeat to you every time he asks: the use of weapons at the border. Unfortunately, we hear a lot of gunfire on the other side, and these are mainly signs of underworld strikes or market divisions on the Serbian side, and unfortunately, there is also a series fire on the Serbian side. Hungarian policemen can use their weapons and border fighters can use them for self-defense purposes. This was the case, this will be the case, and they have already fired a warning shot when they felt that their own lives, their own physical integrity, were at risk; this was the case and will be the case later, honourable Member. However, the system of confiscation may not be enough for 31 seconds. In a hawala system, illegal migrants arrive here, which means that practically the entire distance will be paid, Turkey-Germany, depositing an amount equal to HUF 5.5 million before the starting date for the smuggling gangs of human beings as a sort of trust deposit, perhaps we could put it this way with our use of the word, and as they move forward, the smuggler will gradually receive the quasi- succesful prizes after a phase in this hawala system. That's why illegal migrants don't have much money, because the family pays people smugglers through this hawala system, but they have a very large amount of money. About mobile seizures: of course [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] A good part of the reconnaissance comes from confiscating the people smugglers' cell phones, and that's how they reconnoiter the underground networks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. The Ancient of Novak: We should also have the migrants!]]
u2023-06-13-14	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, asked to speak before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-15	Mr President, Dear House, As usual, we have a budget coming up in the middle of the year, and it may be strange, but we can see hair-scraping things in it, in that regard we are quite certain that this budget is counting on such modest inflation figures, isn't it, with a budget below 10 percent that almost certainly doesn't stand the test of reality. I am the biggest fan of one-digit inflation by the end of the year, but if it is by December, we can also see that on an annual average we have to expect a 17-18-percent decline; a quarter, a third or even a half of this to come next year is obviously more in the category of science fiction than in the case of reality. We also see that the HUF exchange rate has bathed in the design in recent years, since there was a time when the HUF exchange rate was planned with 370 or 385, it ended with 430 or more, so there is quite a gap, and the Hungarian families pay the price for everything. And if we take a closer look at this budget, we also see that this government has a surprise or action every year, which is precisely against the middle class, and it is precisely against the performance of those who we would expect to form a self-respecting civil class in Hungary someday. Last year, it was the plowing of this cat, where the victims of it were those who volunteered, trying to stay on their feet. There was an unspoken social contract that if these people no longer received help, they would somehow survive, even under the Hungarian market economy conditions; they would thank them very much, they would undertake and pay the taxes they needed, but they would not be added. Compared to this, the kata system was terminated in the known circumstances. This year, too, the question of taxing savings can be treated as an assassination of the same self-respecting and of citizens who wish to advance from their talents and diligence. In itself, if the government tried to direct the public towards sovereign debt in such a way, it would also be an incredibly uncouth method, but every year there is a package of such love, which is especially opposed to the interests of the middle class that wants to be strengthened, and we see that this is no different in this budget. We also see, however, that while wage developments in the wage Union concept are very modest in terms of budgetary expenditure in this direction, whether indirect, they are no longer so modest in terms of migrant imports. And we see that when it comes to organising the import of migrant workers, we have to give benefits to companies and companies dealing with them, and this whole process needs to be streamlined, then the government is very careful and very careful that it is easy to invite those involved from the third world. On the other hand, when we make proposals that would put Hungarian workers first in Hungary, this would not be a very high expectation, then the government is not so active. For example, I demanded that the employer, who is thinking about inviting a migrant worker, should be required to demonstrate not only that he cannot find a Hungarian workforce, but also that he cannot retrain any of his existing workers to the job in question; if he could or would receive support from this budget, he should be thinking about calling one less migrant workers. [[9.40]] What is even more harsh is that some of the import of migrant workers is clearly driven by the fact that hundreds of thousands of people migrated from this country under duress, and by looking at this budget, we do not really find anything, a factor that would allow them to attract them home or create a more favourable climate for them. What we would see is that I would help them on the housing front, and yet we do not see any trace of it in the budget. We could look for a public-based rental program, which would allow us to slow emigration precisely, because anyone who can't raise enough resources for a part of themselves or for a very expensive bank loan would be able to run somewhere, have a family, and later buy this property at cost. On the other hand, we see that even the number of housing subsidies is expected to fall by less than half, so the government has also given up on the front of housing to keep young Hungarians, active workers, at home or even to lure them home. On the other hand, we also miss a state fund for wage developments, to which the Hungarian entrepreneur, small entrepreneur, could turn directly if he wanted to develop wages. There is a similar situation in several countries, and there would also be a budgetary resource in the form of extra government revenue realised in the form of extra inflation, but this is lacking in the budget. Our question may therefore only be when the Hungarian worker will be the first in Hungary, and when will there finally be a budgetary sign that they want to lure him home or where else they want to keep those Hungarian young people, Hungarian active people, without whom there will be no Hungarian future. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-06-13-16	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. On behalf of the government, András Tállai responds to what has been said.
u2023-06-13-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There will be an opportunity today, tomorrow and the day after 30 hours to debate the budget submitted for 2024. Your speech also shows how different we see the draft budget for 2024. The government's objective is clear with the budget: to protect Hungarian families, Hungarian workers, pensioners and, of course, Hungarian businesses, Hungarian society. Protection must be provided in times of war, in times of sanctions, when there are economic difficulties in Europe, throughout the world; protection, protection of results achieved, protection of jobs, protection of the additional one million jobs that we have created over the past ten years. This is the most important and this is the greatest result, because if there is work, then there is everything. Families need to be protected on the one hand by reducing their rent [[Sic!]] , in contrast to higher prices, the budgets for this year and for next year include this support: until the average consumption, families will have to pay in 2013 at their bills. The results of the family support system must be protected. There are several elements of this, which will be slightly modified: we will renew the family support system, but we will retain the opportunities in the tax law, the personal income tax law, family tax incentives, personal income tax benefits for under 25, mothers with four children do not have to pay personal income tax. We're protecting the home-building support system. An important objective of the budget is to protect those who no longer work, pensioners. We promised pensioners in 2010 to protect pensions, protect the real value of pensions, protect their purchasing value. I think that the government has done this every year over the past 13 years, and this will be the case in 2023 and 2024, in the next budget; not only does the budget and the government provide the same level of pension increase as inflation, but also guarantees the increased 13th month pension. We protect businesses. A tax increase for businesses is not possible. Corporate tax rates are one of the lowest in Europe, 9 percent, and personal income tax rates remain, but the subsidies that protect jobs, create new jobs and increase productivity remain. But the 2024 budget, in order to protect these achievements, must face financing challenges and difficulties; the most important thing is the use of EU funds. There is an unfortunate political battle here: Hungary wants to be punished by the European Union by interfering with financial processes and the European Union's funding that is due to the country, which is due to the Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, to prevent it, and although all conditions have been fulfilled by the government, the country, they do not provide it for the country. I think that if these are met, we can achieve further results, but I will tell you in my next speech what they will be. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, also spoke before the agenda on the topic of current issues.
u2023-06-13-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask Bence of Rétvári a few questions, really current issues: budget, status law, you belong to the area. Actually, I'd like to ask you a little bit of this, because somehow it doesn't fit in my head, in case you can give me an answer. There will be nothing new for you, I think, but I would like to know what Brussels has to do with financing an area of national competence. As a left-wing politician, I think that we need the money from Brussels very, very much, as the State Secretary before me has said, it would be very, very important, but I already think it is a shame that Brussels is even there to start financing an area of national competence in some way. Even as a detailed area, this is a national area. You're the one who used to say that this money was due to us, and the one before me said it, and I think I agree with the teachers who say that they should have this money from the national budget. If the government intends to use Community funds in any way to finance an area of national competence, then, as you say, there is no unconditional life. If you could finance this from the national budget and finance it from there, then this argument system would not hold up. What I would like to ask you is that you and your government, the Fidesz voters, and the Fidesz supporters and representatives, are so sensitive to the issue of sovereignty that we fund an area of national competence from Brussels. So, next time, you're gonna have the National Basics written there? That's my huge question. Secondly, I would also like to point out that this is not the only argument they make, that they cannot raise the wages of teachers, but that the issue of war is also brought here in parallel in the propaganda machine as an argument. Then I ask you: the Czechs who have just decided that both houses are going to make a large-scale teacher's wage increase are not affected by the war? But here's another thing: there are more and more news in the press, for example, that Hungarian teachers are crossing the Romanian border to work in Romania, if they accept their qualifications, because even there the average wage is higher in terms of paying teachers. So it doesn't work there, and the war in the Czech Republic doesn't work? Finally, but not least, I would like to ask you about the EFOP Plus agreement. [[9.50]] EFOP Plus is the Human Resources Development Operational Programme Plus agreement, which contains the basic elements of the agreement between the Hungarian State and the EU, and which is also referred to by the Minister of Finance when submitting the budget. This includes in particular:. The government and the Parliament will not unilaterally introduce the work burden of teachers..., we know that the status law can be implemented, or, for example, the decision of the director about hours of work, the extra hours of work, I could mention, or the educational programme that restricts existing professional autonomy, can not be decided by a teacher as before, or by rules that reduce the attractiveness of the profession, the visibility of their assets here, but there are many things to mention. These are the measures in this EFOP Plus programme, based solely on meaningful social dialogue with the largest teachers' unions. I know what you're going to say, but I'm telling you in advance, quantity is not the same as quality. In a way, quantity doesn't always equal quality, by the way. So, on the basis of dialogue, especially with regard to acquired rights, well, the termination of the civil servant status means a withdrawal from previously acquired rights in many respects, a consensus can be reached... [[Bence Rétvári: Pursuing a Consensus!]] What? [[Bence Rétvári: The word "wanted" is in it! It's an important word. He bit her by accident! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It has the word "support" in it, so it is, the pursuit of dialogue, we have seen. That's why I told you that quantity isn't the same as quality, by the way. I'd like to ask you how this is interpreted. If this does not meet the conditions in which you have agreed, then you really expect this money from the European Union. Overall, I think that there is a huge contradiction in the propaganda machine: to expect Brussels to have the money for a government so proud of sovereignty if that money is in a national jurisdiction. I think that teachers are entitled to the national budget and that they should raise the wages of teachers there. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-06-13-20	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2023-06-13-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Once again, I apologize for interfering, but it was indeed an accident that the woman, representing the small word, bit her by consensus or consensus. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: He was in it, yes!]] You think there's no difference between the two. We believe that there is, and the EFOP Plus programme does not include, that it is only through consensus that everything can be accepted, but that the government seeks consensus, and then obviously the responsibility is always borne by the government. So the government can then accept any amendments. It is only a good indication of the rhetoric of the left on the whole issue that you say that you can only accept something by consensus, because that is what it is written, while it is that it can be accepted by consensus. But let's start from the beginning. EU money, honourable Member, is not a charity, it is not a gift, it is not a benefit. EU money is ours. It is because we have opened up our own market where smaller and less powerful companies and companies were before the European Union's common market. We have achieved certain derogations that, for some time, we have not opened up certain segments, but, overall, we have become a common market, and this is obviously in favour of a large number of foreign European companies, and they know it. They make a lot of profits out of our country, which is why for us to open up this market, that we have become part of the common European Union, this money is ours. This is not a donation, honourable Member. This must not be thought of as coming from Brussels, but as our money. If you look at it technically, today's budget debate begins, there's the EU's money in one of the budget chapters. This is part of the Hungarian budget, but it comes into the Hungarian budget in just such a complicated way. Brussels sets new conditions for this item, which is also included in the Hungarian budget. This source could have been here a long time ago, it could have been mentioned last year, but for political reasons that you are heating in Brussels, your representatives there for 6 million forints have given you new and new reasons why we can't pay the teachers the salary increase that could lead to an average salary of 800 thousand forints by 2024, you are now doing this. The reason why wages can be paid from EFOP or from EU sources was not the case before, but the epidemic has also brought about a change, as the EU's approach to the epidemic has also changed and, for example, it has been possible to pay health wages in the epidemic. Since the EU always says in its country reports that it is necessary to make the teaching career more attractive, they have made this demand, and we agree, of course, that the biggest development goal should be made more attractive, then we want to achieve it from the largest development source, from EU funds, a HUF 800 billion construction. This came out during the negotiations, and the Union agreed that we could use it to do so. But this is not a charity, Madam honourable Member, it is also part of the Hungarian national budget technically. The only shameful thing is that you go to Brussels to prevent this, and not secretly now, but openly. After all, Anna Donáth may have been the momentary representative who held a press conference here at the Castle a few weeks ago to get on a plane right now and whisper another reason into the European Commissioner's ear about the possibility of delaying the payment of Hungarian funds to the conditions that can be imposed in order to obtain our own resources. As Congressman Ara-Kovács has been told, they are actually working to prevent the sources from coming to Hungary from which the government could raise their teacher's wages. The Czechs also adopted a salary increase programme. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That's what we're trying to do. The bill, the new educator's career law, is already on the agenda of the Parliament, which helps to start the teacher's wage increase as much as possible. In fact, to start it in such a way that if you do more for students, as you said, quantity and quality, we present a bill that evaluates the quantity, because if you have an extra-hour occupation, you go on a field trip, you take the kids on a tour, you have special activities for catching up, you also appreciate the quality of the class, you prepare more thoroughly, you use more innovative methods, you are more engaged with students' attention, you can give them more help in learning, you can also help them. That's what we accept. It is one of those things that you say that the loss of acquired rights is not so, Madam honourable Member, but a performance-based wage, which, by the way, was supported by the teachers themselves in the consultation, with a large majority, to pay better performance with higher wages. I'd like to disprove some false news that you once again said would be extra work. The number of teachers is 22 to 26 hours, as before, and 32 hours is the time to stay in school as before. And one of the meanest moves they had was to tell us that we'd be listening to teachers while the bill, presented or published in March, now states that the teachers' private lives cannot be observed. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-13-22	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. At the same time, Endre Tóth, representative of Momentum, applied for an address on our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-13-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Fellow Members, there is a cold-blooded vengeance between the walls of this House. [[Bence Rétvári: Are you talking about Gyurcsány?]] Many pro-government squires, with Lord Dumpty in the lead, are about to draw protesting teachers to the waist. What was their crime? They wanted to protect the honor of their profession and demanded decent working conditions. Now we're gonna get 40 bots in the form of the Vengeance Act, because that's what Mr. Dumpster and his mercenary chief mustaches are like. [[Bence Rétvári: You too have a mustache!]] Not your salary is small, but your mouth is big! Shout it out to the teachers. Some people get fired, some people get forced to quit, others get broken because they care about making a stand, not education. Education is a dangerous thing, and there's gonna be too many critical thinkers, and the public's eyes are gonna open up. The waist is shiny, the baton is fluttering, the tear gas flies, the people who care about the nation's future are shredded. But as time passes, more and more marcona lads have to be ordered there, and an ever stronger cordon has to be built for the castle of Mr. Dumpty, as it appeared this morning, because all those Goudas Matyi have become impertinent. They have long since turned their backs on the expertise, so they have to rely on muscle and iron, even though they have ever had a skilled mastermind, but now they are banished to gardening in the shadow of a great Turul bird. It's better that way, they thought education was a dangerous thing, even though they promised teachers a priceless wage increase earlier. All that was left of this was the promise, and the priceless wage increase was tossed in the first corner. These teachers should have known that Hoffmann's stories shouldn't be taken too seriously. Since then, everyone in education has been depraved, because prices are in space here, and salaries are under the bottom of the miner's bed, so it's hard to bring things to a level. But they're not really trying, because the construction of the castle and all the stadiums is costing a lot of money, and there's always someone to blame. Sometimes the Treasury is empty because of the war, and sometimes Brussels doesn't pay its dues. [[10.00]] Few suspect the master, even though the moon shows that he had his son-in-law and his buddy unload all the gold at night. But after so much bad luck, after so much strife, some teachers who remain on the field will continue to teach even after they are exhausted and broken. They're hoping they might get away with it. Maybe they won't be touched by the mustache captain's disciplined hand. But I've got some bad news. He'll get to you. They'll be hit by a stick, transferred to another school, a disciplinary procedure, a six-month fine, or a performance fee will be distributed in a feudal system. For some reason, those who are left out of the landowner's favors will suddenly begin to decline in performance. It's a weird coincidence. Well, yes, Balatonalmádi also lacked that 2 percent to qualify as a teacher organizing the strike. There's nothing you can do, because, you know, the facts are stubborn. The fact that this teacher, when he left school, had iron applause from his students was not relevant, but the criticism of the portfolio was granite, just like the Fundamental Law. The waist will continue to work, but who will teach the children while their teachers are being staffed? And who teaches them if the 5,000 teachers who announced their resignation for the Winterfell, because of the reverends, because of Dumpty, are no longer teachers from September? 'Cause let's just say the truth. Young people don't get into the teaching field, no matter what the pro-government parrot commando screams. 22 graduate students want to be chemistry teachers and 23 physics teachers this year. On the other hand, 4383 registered as lawyers and 6900 registered as management and management professionals. It's probably not the best course orientation to pull on the waist. 'Cause how many times do parents tell you not to be a teacher, son? ? And how many teachers-married couples forbid their children from continuing their profession? But obviously, these arguments do not affect either the Ispa or Dumpling himself, because compassion is forbidden by the János Bórótó professional chamber. It's too bad you have to be a member of the ruling parties. But, you know, Dumpster didn't laugh at the end of the story, and the reverends and the marauder lads didn't laugh. Only Matyi Goudas laughed, and he will now, because as long as the world is around, the master who abused his power will be taught a lesson by the people whom he had drawn to his waist. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum and MSZP. Dr. Robert Répássy: Was that the end?]]
u2023-06-13-24	Thank you very much, Congressman Endre Tóth. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2023-06-13-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to respond to you insulting people on the basis of external characters, but I would add that it was a waste to learn in Oxford if it was the style. [[Endre Tóth intervenes.]] As regards the substance of the speech. First, let's start with the bill. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that momentary politicians may have been in a mess of action in various public spaces, but the government has consulted the representative organisations more than twenty times. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right! Endre Tóth intervenes.]] And as far as the main points of the proposal are concerned. Let's take a look at what's in there, because apart from the general horse-zung, I'm practically not hearing a substantial proposal from you and your fellow parties about what might be worth changing or a new proposal. For example, with 50 days of freedom for a teacher in a year corresponding to 10 weeks, what is their problem? What do you suggest? Should there be less? Is that punishment? Or, for example, if a teacher cares more about a student or because he prepares him for competition or because he misses a course and gets more money for it, what is the problem with that? You don't agree with that, you'd do it differently, or you'd wipe it all out? There is only one substantive suggestion I cannot hear from you on this matter. Or, for example, let's look at the extension of the school year. It is clear in the proposal that the school year could only be longer if there was an unavoidable cause, such as an epidemic. Well, we remember that all of this happened, and in this case, teaching was nationally impossible. So this bill also considered extraordinary situations. And what is most important or just as important is that this bill creates the possibility of wage increases. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Nothing ever stopped him before!]] Wage increases that should be much higher are precisely why we expect EU money to arrive. I would like to say two things about why this is necessary, by the way. EU money is ours! Those are our money! Those are our money, as laid down in the contract. The second thing is that there has been a significant reduction in the scope of the economies across Europe, and all possible ways must therefore be taken into account in order to increase the wages of teachers as well as in the case of other sectoral wage increases. I would like to add that the people you joined, when they governed, were not in the debate about such legislative proposals, if at all there was a debate. At the time, wages were not increased, and the debate was not about raising wages, but about taking wages with a single vote. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: 2002-2003!]] Then they didn't expand the teaching career, they put tens of thousands on the street. They put me on the street! They didn't renovate schools, they stopped educational activities; do you know how many places? Nearly 400 places, 381 places. [[Szabolcs Szabó and Ágnes Kunhalmi intervene.]] And if I approach it from the budget side, what you call punishment, do you know how much more we will spend on education questions and education next year if we accept the budget? 1989 billion forints, nearly 2,000 billion forints. That's the difference. So you think it's a punishment for a surplus spending of 2,000 billion forints. Congressman! Sometimes I get the feeling that they haven't bothered to look at the numbers, the budget numbers, or the most important points of the bill, while they're taking action on the streets at these moments. I can see you're trying to settle for these dialogues or demonstrations. I see that they also want to introduce methods in Hungary abroad. What I would like to tell you is that when you propose actions that go beyond the legal framework, you do not serve the case of teachers. When your president tries to force the crowd on the police at one of the protests, tell me how it serves the teacher's cause. How do you serve him? And to say one more thing: one of your MEPs, who has sworn to represent Hungary, to act in our interests, i.e. in the interests of the Hungarians, stands up and at a press conference demands that new conditions be put in place against Hungary, so that we can only get the EU money. We can't find words for that. We can't find words for that, or we can actually find what you're doing, the incredible hypocrisy, cynicism, and, last but not least, an act against teachers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-13-26	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Mr Zoltán Komáromi, representative of DK, also spoke before the agenda on the title of current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today I am talking about a profession, a profession that has met at least one member of my fellow Members in the Chamber. However, I am the one who not only met, but for years as a villager's district doctor I could work with two such brilliant professionals. It's June 13th, it's the day of the women's wards. In Hungary, the National Stefania Association was established on 13 June 1915 with the patronage of the Belgian princess Stefania. And since 1916 is that name familiar? Courtesy of Pál Heim, Hungarian women's protective training also started. From our childhood, we do not remember our own guardian angel, but if we become parents ourselves, we wonder how much help these wonderful professionals can offer us. Many of you must have experienced one of the most beautiful moments of life when a parent first held his newborn child in his hands. I'm sure that feeling like nothing has been burned into your memory forever. From then on, a new adventure opens up in the life of the couple, a beautiful, uplifting adventure that holds countless difficulties along the way. To level this path, the patronesses who stand by families have sworn to teach young parents many things that cannot be learned from a book. We are celebrating them today, absolutely rightfully. They are the ones who teach mothers the practical secrets of breast-feeding and child feeding, or how to cure an inflamed baby-popsy, how to effectively relieve fever, or what to do when our baby has broken its stomach. The Green Cross Protection Network has been in operation in Hungary since the 1920s. This system is worthy of being placed on the shelves of the Hungaricums next to the matyóki or the Csaba sausage, since there is no other country where families would be treated in a similar way. [[10.10]] Thanks to the network, all children are already watched by the protective woman in their mother's womb and are supported from birth to puberty by young children in healthy development. The presence of a protective woman is important in every child's life. This is exponentially true in an endangered pregnancy or in a child born with disabilities. This will not only help families but also help doctors. A patroness is a family supporter, a social worker, a nurse, an educator, an important source of information for municipalities about what family needs, what kind of support. In one person, they possess the knowledge of several professionals, and they are an indispensable part of the Hungarian health system. This is also highly true when children are also cared for by general practitioners who mostly deal with adults in rural mixed areas. For them, a protective woman is worth gold, especially now, when more and more doctors leave the field, grow old, get sick, or retire. There are no general practitioners in more and more, currently 340 rural areas. Nearly 70,000 children live in these settlements. If we add the remaining 114 thousand children living in 170 unfilled home-care areas, it is easy to see that in Hungary, perhaps except for the Heine-Medin epidemic in the 1950s, there has never been such a need for the knowledge, experience and vocation of the women of protection. We can say that women in charge are indispensable parts of the Hungarian health system, at least until now. The Hungarian government decided that after 17 days, it would lead the women to the hospitals in the county, tear them out of their usual environment, and, based on a special police logic, they would be directed and directed from where there is a shortage of such professionals. With this dilettant, poorly thought-out and unprepared action, the protective network is losing its essence. You're losing what made you single all over Europe. The human connection will cease. Defensive women who can be deployed can now care for unknown families, people who don't know their problems, their history, their history. Now who will choose this beautiful profession at 18? Because 10 percent of the women's positions are still empty. You are slowly taking everything away from the Hungarians, their money, their livelihood and their health for some time now. The Dobrev Klara-led shadow government would never let that happen. He works to break down inflation in Orbán, not prices, but wages. However, as long as Viktor Orbán is in power, there will be no change. You must leave, so that the Hungarians can live in well-being and safe health. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] You have two weeks to see it. [[The president's ringing again.]] they have made a fatal mistake, and if it can be arranged, they will withdraw this provision with a dense apology. Thank you for your patience.
u2023-06-13-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Komáromi. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2023-06-13-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On the day of the women's defense, it is very appropriate to pay particular attention to the women in charge, to thank them for their work, to thank them for the fact that after the child was conceived, or often before the conception, when someone is planning a child, they are there for the families, and they are helping in what the family needs. And then, from the birth of the child to schoolgirlhood, school counselors help us to prevent diseases, to better deal with the situations that life brings, because for many, the advice given by the women in charge, the help given by the women in charge, cannot be replaced by anything else, because they wouldn't be able to do that from anywhere else. Some in their families may have been given this, or have learned it from their family, but for many, especially those who live and have children away from their parents, it is especially important for them to be shown by the patroness and help them. This obviously helps many people, whether in the planning of the future or in the care of the child. Thank you for your work, thank you for being around every born Hungarian child in the past decades and giving their lives and time to help other families, helping other children grow up in health. If the Fidesz-KDNP government had not been restored a year ago, but Péter Márki-Zay would have been Prime Minister of Hungary, then we would probably not be able to raise this issue here today, since he made it clear that the protective network should not be developed, but should be dismantled, because it is a useless Hungaricum. You started the parliamentary election by saying that your own candidate for Prime Minister would have basically shut down this protective network; here you only said that you would have broken it down, but obviously, if you thought it was useless, you would have ended it. There would be nothing to celebrate today, today we would talk about how many decades there has been a protection network in Hungary, and not how we plan to develop and renew the protection network for the next decades. So you really would have had a historical responsibility for the ugly conclusion of the Hungarian success story of the patroness. But that's not how it happened. If you mentioned a shadow government when the head of the shadow government was married to the government in Hungary, then you didn't help people to consult a doctor, because you said you needed doctors, you need to see a doctor, because the doctor who can't help you can help you, but you did take money from people every time they turned to doctors. This was called a visitation fee. Ferenc Gyurcsány confirmed a year and a half ago here in Parliament that if the shadow government were to take power, so if the shadow government, which is the last hope of Ferenc Gyurcsány's return to power, would surely return the paid health care, and the people would have to pay again to the doctor if there were still a hospital, because you were bidding on each other with Imre László's DK colleague that 45 percent of the hospitals should be closed down or more. So much for your attitude towards health care. And I would like to deny that in Hungary there would be fewer doctors than in previous years. About 4,000 more doctors in Hungary have operating permits compared to 2010, so that more people can heal in Hungary than at the beginning of our government. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: There are no general practitioners!]] It is clear that the number of doctors working in Hungary has not decreased since the beginning of our governance. This is also due to the fact that fewer people went abroad, about two thirds of the number of people applying for a permit to work abroad decreased, and it is also due to the fact that one and a half times as many people graduate from the university: now medical universities in Hungary are issuing not a thousand, but 1500 degrees. As far as the future of the defence network is concerned, you pointed out that from 1 July, as the whole health system has been transformed from 2013 until today, so will the protective service. In 2013 it was established that hospitals had become state-owned and operated, and in recent years we have gone in the direction that the central control hospital in the county has become more and more prominent, not only inpatient care, but also outpatient care and basic care. The primary care is also a part of the patronage, which is why they are able to operate in the same local government property, and their relationship with the local community, of course, remains the same. So what you were concerned about, I can reassure you, honourable Member, that nothing is at risk, that you can serve these communities in the same way. But professional management, as in all other areas of health, is now going to the control hospital in the county, and he is helping to get more help, as professionally as possible. Previously, the National Mentor Network was built [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Special Deputy Director General in the National Hospital Directorate General [[The president's ringing again.]] the case of the women in charge. So I think I trust that this change will strengthen your protective service. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-30	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Mr András Aradszki, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted a speech before the agenda entitled "Decreasing sanctioning inflation." You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, For more than a year, the war has raged, whose economic shrapnel has flown far beyond the borders of the country. The one who talks about us being at war, getting into this war, and sending weapons, soldiers, has no idea what the older people have: that we can lose everything in war; that war causes lives, losses, crises, and immense poverty. This war isn't happening here, it's happening next door, but we feel the effect. [[10.20]] Since the introduction of war and sanctions, energy prices, inflation and food prices have skyrocketed. The government has been protecting the country's security, families, pensioners and jobs for over a year. In exchange for Brussels and the rolling dollars, the Hungarian left demands the abolition of the reduction of the rent, but the abolition of the reduction would mean that Hungarian families would have an average increase of HUF 181 thousand per month. However, the dollar left also pushes the wrong sanctions in Brussels, while attacking measures to protect Hungarian families and demanding serious restrictions. The restriction is Gyurcsány and the mania of the left. Gyurcsány and the left are those who, even during the crisis, have taken away from families, raised taxes on a series of occasions, abolished family support and took away a month's pension. They didn't care that they increased the price of gas and electricity, that they had to pay triple the price for gas and double the price for electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, Now the left wants to abolish the reduction of the rent, cut the family allowances. The government is also doing its best to protect families, pensions and jobs in a difficult situation caused by war and misplaced sanctions. The government will do everything in its power to reduce sanctioned inflation to one digit by the end of the year. In order to reduce the increase in food prices due to war and the increase in sanctions, mandatory action has therefore started from 1 June, which is also not supported by the left; in food shops, customers can expect price reductions in 20 categories of products. Although it has only been in force for a short time, the very positive results of mandatory shop operations are already visible. With the introduction of the online price monitoring system, the most favourable consumer prices will be available on a daily basis for 60 product products as from 1 July. Due to these measures, competition is increasing, which is increasingly reducing inflation. Government measures are in place as consumer prices decline is becoming more dynamic; inflation has been declining for the first time since November 2020 on a monthly basis, based on data from the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. The figures confirmed that, thanks to government measures, inflation declines are increasing and continue to accelerate in the second half of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, Gyurcsány and the left are false again. If there were no war and no sanctions in Brussels, inflation would fall faster. They know that, too. Just as you know precisely that, until there is peace and Brussels withdraws sanctions, inflation cannot be removed from our lives. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the government's measures to break all inflation, as the most important thing is to protect families, pensioners and jobs. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-13-32	Thank you very much, Congressman András Aradski. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond.
u2023-06-13-33	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The war at our borders, as well as the failed sanctions policy in Brussels, really puts a very heavy burden on Hungary and the Hungarian people. As has been the case, the government remains committed to protecting the cost reduction, families, pensioners and full employment. Our objective is to prevent recession and break inflation to one digit by the end of the year, and to reduce it to around 6 percent next year. Dear House, Inflation does not fall on its own, it must be reduced. In order to reduce inflation and protect families, the Hungarian government has so far taken some 20 measures to protect families, businesses and jobs. Just a few examples. There is a food price stop alive, we provide cheap resources to businesses through the Széchenyi card program, but we also provide support for energy intensive businesses, the factory rescue program and we have also decided to increase support for work. As part of the anti-inflationary measures, the government introduced a interest rate stop, the extension of which has now been decided. Thanks to the measure, the residential interest stop has so far protected some 350 thousand families from high interest rates. So far, government measures are in place, and we've got results. Inflation has started to decline. In January, inflation was 21.5 per cent after a 25,7 per cent peak in May, representing a reduction of more than 4 percentage points and a decrease of 2,5 percentage points compared to the latest data in April. This indicates that the decline in consumer prices is becoming more dynamic and more visible, so government measures are working. Food inflation declined significantly, almost 4.5 percent compared to the average on an annual basis in April. From June we introduced mandatory price-breaking operations in retail shops with a turnover of more than HUF 1 billion. Among other things, the primary objective of measures based on French and Greek examples is to provide people with access to a food basket of about 20 products per week at affordable prices. The food basket included, among others, poultrymeat, milk, sour cream and substitutes, cheese, bread, pastries, rice, certain fresh fruits and vegetables. On the basis of the first days' experience with the price break-down action, it can be said that retailers are overachieving the required price reduction of at least 10 per cent. The mandatory action for a food basket of 20 products reached 30% in some cases. Our primary objective in the price monitoring system is to improve customer orientation, in addition to increasing price competition. The government also makes every effort to protect families, pensioners, full employment and the average consumption, resulting in a monthly saving of some HUF 181 thousand per family, in the economic situation affected by war and sanctions. An important element of these anti-inflationary measures is the extended interest rate stop, the price monitoring system and the price break-down action. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-13-34	[[Continuous noise in the Chamber. The president's gonna jog his glass.]] Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Speaking before the agenda, Ms Csöbör Katalin, representative of Fidesz came forward with the title of our current affairs.
u2023-06-13-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Today, one of the most important issues is that the conflict in our neighbourhood, which brings about an energy crisis, increased prices and inflation, destroys our economic performance, endangers Transcarpathian Hungarians, and which, not least, causes hundreds of thousands to die, when it ends, and in the meantime, can expect the extent of the conflict. For the first question, the majority of relevant analysts are honest, but they do not give us the answer. And indeed, responsibility cannot be predicted today, because we are witnessing a clash of forces outside of us, and others say we are witnessing his game. The Hungarian Government has rightly, repeatedly declared that Hungary does not wish to participate in this conflict in any way; we must not only stand on the side of peace in defence of Transcarpathian Hungarians, but we must reject all steps leading to the expansion of war. [[10.30]] But our country's basic defence, economic and financial interests are also served by the 21st century. We are not in any form involved in the greatest armed conflict of the century. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have to face on a regular basis irresponsible statements that help not to alleviate the conflict but to escalate it. Hungary became a member of NATO because historically [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The majority of Hungarians feel they belong to the West, culturally and physically, and, of course, because the most powerful defence federal system in the world was expected by the Hungarian people to guarantee lasting peace and security in Hungary. When NATO's Secretary General, Mr Jens Stoltenberg, without consulting us, says to one of the leading news agencies that all NATO members agree with Ukraine's NATO membership, it does not move the world towards peace and does not help our country's level of security. Then it will actually deepen the conflict between Ukraine and Russia and give ammunition to the pro-war Russian forces to keep Russian public opinion on the side of the war. A basically defence federal system, yes, has the right to make geopolitical, strategic, military and military plans, has the right to expand its federal system, but officials of the organization have no right to make irresponsible and at the moment point point point pointless statements that deepen a threatening conflict. Today it is in Hungary's primary interest to have peace in Ukraine, to have a stable, predictable political system in Russia. NATO should take into account the fundamental interests of all member states of the federal system and not communicate with high-level geopolitical goals. From the eastern part of Ukraine, such as the Bahmut region, we see images quoting the horrors of the First World War. Hundreds of thousands will be lost, cities will disappear from the face of the Earth, forests and the best fields in Europe will become space regions. Could any responsible European politician want the horrors of war to appear in any EU country? Could any Hungarian politician, including the Hungarian opposition, want to get involved in this senseless conflict? There have been no significant defence developments in Hungary since 1990. Hungary has been unable to defend itself in recent decades. Since 2016, the government has made significant efforts to make Hungary fit to have a defence power within the federal system that is capable of ensuring the sovereignty of our country. The escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict is a real threat today. If that happens, the horror of the Third World War will come to us, which could mean the destruction of mankind. It is not possible to imagine a value, a right, a moral standard, a geopolitical goal or a national interest against which the destruction of human civilization can be weighed. Today, all responsible thinkers, all significant political forces must be on the side of peace. That is why I ask the Hungarian Government to continue its responsible foreign policy activities that keep our country away from the conflict and guarantee the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Bravo! Noise. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Csöbör. On behalf of the government, Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, will answer.
u2023-06-13-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] First of all, if you will allow us to record that there were seven opposition speeches here this morning, this morning, during the debate before the agenda, six on the left and one on the part of our country; we assume that they are not yet left-wing. [[An uproar in the ranks of our country. Defiance.]] So there were seven opposition speeches, and no one from the Hungarian opposition mentioned peace, and no one from the Hungarian opposition said that this war had to end, how important peace was, no one talked about it. There are two reasons for this: one is that the importance of the conclusion of peace and war is not important to the Hungarian left; this may be one of the reasons. There's a worse reason, because they're pro-war, they don't want the war to end. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] They're supporting the continuation of the war. And in vain, Mr Arató, it is true, we know it is true, because I have been told a number of times that I mention that they are pro-war and support the continuation of the war. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are on the side of peace, the government and the governing parties, and let me say that in recent days I have read a short sentence that sums up what the pro-war people think with great and icy honesty, and this is how it sounds: there is no time for peace. That's what the pro-war think. People are dying in our neighborhood, Hungarians are dying, and Hungarians are also dying, and our Western friends forget about it. At least here, in the Hungarian Parliament, we say that in this war Hungarians die alongside the Ukrainians and the Russians. So we know exactly what this is about, yet the pro-war people say that this is not a time of peace. People die, or if they don't die, they get hurt, they get crippled, families get ruined, and the pro-war people say it's not a time for peace. All of Europe suffers from an energy crisis, we see stupid sanctions, war and stupid sanctions policy mean inflation, we all suffer from it, and yet the pro-war people say that this is not a time for peace. Madam Member, the pro-war people therefore say that the war must continue until Ukraine wins. This means that the pro-war forces will tie the end of the war to a military result, a military result that we do not know when it will come, if it does come at all. So the pro-wars urge, want, and support the continuation of war and the extension of suffering. And another thing: when the Hungarian left-wing representatives say and here I return to the earlier yells about why we say that they are pro-war or why you are pro-war, why we say this. [[Intercoms from the opposition side. Szabó Timea: Why? Tell me.]] I'm saying this because you claim... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You support the war because it is in Ukraine's interest to continue the war. I doubt that, but I could accept it from a Ukrainian politician, but I am a Hungarian politician and I represent Hungary, and Hungary is in the interest of peace. So I'm going to ask you, when you say you want to continue the war, because it's in Ukraine's interest. [[Gergely Harvestó: We don't say! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You're lying! Sit down.]] then why do they go against the Hungarian interest. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Why are they facing the Hungarian interest and not putting Hungary first? For us, Hungary is always the first for the government and the ruling parties, peace is in Hungary's best interests, and we will never support war and pro-war. And here's the thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In particular, the problem with the left is not that the government is being attacked, because this morning we could not hear any political feat that would be irresistible, we did not encounter unattractive intellectual attacks and achievements. The problem is that you are attacking the interests of Hungary. The Hungarian interest in migration was also attacked when we talked about security, and this is again on the table, also in relation to the corona virus, when they were anti-vaccination. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true either!]] and even when they are pro-war and pro-sanctioned, they also act against the Hungarian interest. [[Noise. The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You claim that every decent country would send and send a weapon, Bence Tordai said, and Ferenc Gyurcsány said that anyone who does not want to die for Ukraine is a lousy person. Ladies and Gentlemen, You're pro-war, and we're pro-peace. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: Time!]] and we will never put the interests of another country before Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.40]]
u2023-06-13-38	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work with decisions, we will have a very short technical break. (Recess: 10.40-10.42) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2023-06-13-39	Fellow Members! I welcome you all with love. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machines. Ladies and gentlemen, In today's decisions, we also decide to accept proposals requiring a qualified majority. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the 50th House Rule of Procedure. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. It follows now that the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the modification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime will be published in T/4020. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/4020/1. The amendment to the section of the bill, which contains the authentic text of the international treaty, which has been finally established, has been submitted with a view to restoring the authentic text, which is available to all of us on the House's network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4020. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 189 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows from the publication of the T/2996 Agreement between the Parties to the South East European Police Cooperation Convention on the automated exchange of DNA data, Dactiloscopic data and vehicle registration data. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/2996/1. No.2 submitted an adjustment to the section of the bill containing the translation of the authentic text of the international treaty in Hungarian to improve spelling and translation errors, which are available to all of us on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/2996. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 190 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows from the publication of the T/2997 Agreement between the Parties to the South East European Police Cooperation Convention on the implementation of the Agreement on the automated exchange of DNA data, Dactiloscopic data and vehicle registration data Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/2997/1. No.2 submitted an adjustment to the section of the bill containing the translation of the authentic text of the international treaty in Hungarian to improve spelling and translation errors, which are available to all of us on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/297. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 191 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows now that the Protocol to the Agreement between the Parties to the South East European Police Cooperation Convention amending the Agreement between the Parties on the automated exchange of DNA data, Dactiloscopic data and vehicle registration data is being published in T/2998. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/298. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 191 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. The situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary [[January 2019 December 2020]] H/3666. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/3666. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 163 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 22 abstentions. Following the publication of the Protocol and amendments to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transient Air Pollution on Persistent Organic Contaminants, T/4021. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4021/4. T/4021/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.50]] The rapporteur is Mr T/4021/7. The Commission has submitted an adjustment to the section of the bill, which contains the authentic text of the international treaty and its translation in Hungarian, to correct the spelling and translation errors and to restore the authentic text, which is available to all of us on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4021/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 183 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4021/6. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted single proposal with 185 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. Following a series of amendments to the Annex to Decision No XXI of 2007 The Protocol on Heavy Metals to the 1979 Geneva Convention on Long-Range Tangible Air Pollution, adopted in Aarhus on 24 June 1998, adopted at the 31st meeting of the Executive Body of the Convention on Heavy Metals, adopted on 13 December 2012. 1 and 2012/6. T/4022. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4022/4 and T/4022/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The rapporteur is Mr T/4022/7. The Commission has submitted an adjustment to the section of the bill, which contains the authentic text of the international treaty and its translation in Hungarian, to correct the spelling and translation errors and to restore the authentic text, which is available to all of us on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee T/4022/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 185 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4022/6. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted single proposal with 182 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. The next step is the T/3677 on state works. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3677/8 and T/3677/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 to 7, 11, 12, 13 and 31 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3677/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and 8 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3677/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 8 abstentions. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rules of Decision 51. In accordance with Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the rapporteur initiated the postponement of the final vote. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I do not have to ask Minister János Lázár before making a decision, because yesterday in his exposé he indicated that he wanted to postpone the final vote. Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to postpone the T/3677. The final vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament postponed the final vote on the proposal by 142 votes in favour, no votes against, with 45 abstentions. T/3768 on the amendment of certain laws to the function of the Minister of Agriculture. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3768/7 and T/3768/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 55, 56, 57, 76-80, 96, 100 and 102 of this Decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3768/7. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 28 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3768/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 140 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/3768/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 139 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 28 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/3768/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 141 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 27 abstentions. It is now up to T/3757 on the amendment of certain laws relating to professional service law and to certain registrations. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3757/4 and T/3757/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/3757/4, the Group of Dialogue is the T/3757/4. A separate vote was initiated on point 17 of the summary amendment proposal. That's what we'll decide first. [[11.00]] I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3757/4. Point 17 requested a separate vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point for a separate vote on the summary amendment by 141 votes to 43, with 8 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3757/4. Further points of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 140 votes to 39 with 11 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3757/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 141 votes in favour, 38 votes against and 13 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3757/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 139 votes in favour, 37 votes against and 13 abstentions. It is now time for T/4031 to amend certain laws necessary to facilitate the economic exploitation of innovation and scientific results. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4031/7, and T/4031/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. Subject to paragraphs 49, 50, 54, 57, 60, 62, 64, 65, 88. A qualified majority shall be required for the adoption of the provision laying down new points (c) of Article 66 and points 71 to 75, and the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4031/7. A qualified majority of the provisions of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 23 abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4031/7. The other parts of the summary amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4031/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 23 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4031/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 23 abstentions. Following up is the T/4025 on amendments to the law to increase the competitiveness of the economy. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4025/4 and T/4025/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 54, 55 and 56 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4025/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 28 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4025/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4025/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 28 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4025/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 28 abstentions. Next up is T/4024 on the Hungarian Corvin Chain and the Hungarian Corvin Chain Corps. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4024/4 of the legislative committee's summary amendment report T/4024/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2, 3, 19, 21 and 23 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4024/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 17 abstentions. [[11.10]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4024/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 17 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4024/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 142 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 18 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4024/4. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 143 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 17 abstentions. Dear House, Fellow Members! Next up is T/4030 on circular economy legislative amendments. on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment to bill No 72. § 1 of the procedure and, in the event of their adoption, of the proposal for an excessive amendment, the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote. T/400/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment and T/400/8 of its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is separate from the summarised amendment proposal T/400/6. It also submitted a proposal for an amendment that went beyond the scope of the amendment and T/4003/7 at the same time as the submission. No 72 of the Rules of Procedure. § 1 of the Act, in which it proposes to the Parliament that the House Rules of Decisions 71. Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that we will decide first on the regularity of the expanding amendment proposal, then on the 72nd. § 1 proposal. If these are adopted, we will decide on the proposal for an over-extending amendment. This will be followed by the decision to make a summary amendment proposal and, finally, the final vote. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 71. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the proposed amendment is linked to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the House Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Prior to the decisions, the rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee, and when there is a minority opinion in the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur for the minority opinion may speak in a total time frame of four minutes. The rapporteur may then state his position within a two-minute time frame. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has indicated in advance that it does not present a rapporteur. I would like to ask that someone on the part of the authors wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak on the regularity of the over-extensive amendments. [[No one's reporting.]] In accordance with Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the amendment is linked to the content of a formal amendment proposal or to the House Rule 44 of the Decision. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Prior to the decisions, the rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee, and when there is a minority opinion in the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur for the minority opinion may speak in a total time frame of four minutes. The rapporteur may then state his position within a two-minute time frame. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has indicated in advance that it does not present a rapporteur. I would like to ask that someone on the part of the authors wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak on the regularity of the over-extensive amendments. (No one's reporting. ) I don't see any contact. Now T/4003/6. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament, T/4003/6. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not overextend the proposal by 11 votes in favour, 172 against and 9 abstentions. [[Sic!]] Dear Parliament, Since this House did not consider the proposal to be in order, the House Rules of Decision 70. Paragraph 3 (10) of this Article shall be deemed to be closed. Accordingly, the resolution rule is 72. No decision shall be taken on the proposal pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 and on the proposal for an excessive amendment. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're gonna decide now. Amendment 2 is the motion of Ms Rebecca Szabó. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 146 votes against and 4 abstentions. Since Parliament, my fellow Members, has not maintained an amending proposal, we are now deciding on a summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4003/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 22 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament did not consider the proposal for an excessive amendment to be in order, the final vote will now follow, and in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the summarised amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. The adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4030. The provisions of Amendment No 3 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 35 against and 22 abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4030 will accept it. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 21 abstentions. It follows that T/3778 on the amendment of the laws concerning certain economic, asset management and postal matters Decision on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote and the postponed final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament decided to postpone the final vote on the sitting of 23 May, the national T/3778/12. A proposal for an amendment to the final vote was tabled. The Legislative Committee's amendment before the final vote T/3778/13 and its report before the final vote T/3778/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The resolution rule is 55. On the basis of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3778/13. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3778/13. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment before the final vote by 134 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 13 abstentions. [[11.20]] It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament adopted, at its meeting on 23 May, the amended text of the proposal for an amending amendment, which was in line with the draft amendment, and of the amendment before the final vote, the final vote will decide on the amended text of the single proposal containing the proposal for an excessive amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the amended single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present, subject to which the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3778/10. The provisions of the amended single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 8 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the amended single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3778/10. The provisions of the amended single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 8 abstentions. The T/4026 on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4026/4 and T/4026/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4026/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 47 votes against and 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4026/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and 10 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4026/4. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and 10 abstentions. It follows from the publication of the T/4023 Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data in Strasbourg on 28 January 1981. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4023/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The rapporteur is T/4023/8. The bill submitted an adjustment to the section of the bill, which contains the authentic text of the international treaty and its translation in Hungarian, to correct a translation error, which is available to all of us on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4023/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 189 votes to none, with one abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4023/7. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted single proposal with 188 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Next up is T/4028 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4028/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mrs Bernadett Bakos. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 46 votes in favour, 128 votes against and 15 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4028/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 38 votes against and 14 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4028/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 36 votes against and 14 abstentions. Next up is the 1995 LVII on water management. T/4029. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4029/7 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment and T/4029/8 of its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the DK Group proposed to maintain Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Gergely Arató and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 45 votes in favour, 128 votes against and 9 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4029/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 151 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4029/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 169 votes in favour, no votes against, with 12 abstentions. [[11.30]] Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, we are now deciding to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Ms Andrea Hegedüs, representative of DK, I/4033. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 127 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Miklós Dawn, representative of Momentum, I/4242. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 128 votes in favour, 55 against and two abstentions. Ms Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, I/4260. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 128 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, I/4253. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 128 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. Member István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazan, representative of I/4006. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 127 votes in favour, 37 votes against and 2 abstentions. Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, I/4258. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, I/4257. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 126 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, I/4240. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of Parliament. [[V. 2.]] decision to amend a parliamentary decision. S/4313 put forward by the President All of you could get to know the proposal on the website. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-40	, 1. 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament [[V. 2.]] The first point of the OGY resolution is amended as follows: The National Assembly to the National Defence and Police Committee Dr. Sándor Fazekas [[Fidesz]] [[Fidesz]] Dr Ferencz Orsolya (Fidesz) is elected as a member of the Committee. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
u2023-06-13-41	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/4313. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal by 180 votes to one, with one abstention. I wish Mrs. Congressman good work on behalf of the Parliament in the Parliament's Defence Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[Break: 11.35-11.40 President: Dr. János Latorcai Recorders: Dr. István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian]]
u2023-06-13-42	Ladies and gentlemen, Take your seats so we can continue our work. We will continue our work with debates. The general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2024 will follow. The bill is T/4181. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/4181/1. can be found on our website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Allow me to warmly and warmly welcome Mr László Windisch, President of the State Audit Office and Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] I would like to inform you that the Committee on Budgets will act as a legislative committee when negotiating the bill. Dear House, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I now ask Mr István Tiba to explain the distribution of the time-frame of the factions available today, as well as the main rules of the debate. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-43	Dear Parliament, Today's nine-hour timeframe is divided into 183 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 87 minutes for the KDNP Group, 52 minutes for the DK Group, 41 minutes for the Momentum Group, 41 minutes for the MSZP Group, 36 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 32 minutes for the Group of Our Country, 32 minutes for the Dialogue Group, 30 minutes for the LMP Group and 6 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to another day. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, if the MEP has applied through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced it as a speaker. Where he has made direct contact, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member, each within a 7-minute time frame. The speech of the representative or representative of the nationality of Hungary invited by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, as well as the further speeches of representatives and advocates of nationalities, may take place on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday 20-20 minutes in a total of 60 minutes, which will not be included in the timeframe.
u2023-06-13-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, In the general debate today, in a 40-minute time frame, the President of the State Audit Office spoke in a 30-minute time frame, the President of the Board of Budgets speaking in a 30-minute time frame, the speakers of the political groups will be able to speak in a 30-30-minute time frame, to speak in a 20-minute time frame for the representative or representative of the nationalities of Hungary invited by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, and to take further speeches to the time frame of each faction. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. I now give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, the author of the item on the agenda, in a 40-minute time frame, who tells the expo from this platform, the pulpit of the platform. Here you go, Minister. Thank you very much, Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As we unfortunately perceive it on a thousand threads a day, a prolonged and increasingly brutal war is taking place in our neighbor Ukraine. Stability and planning are of particular importance at times like this. We believe that it is important that both families and businesses and the institutions concerned get to know the government's prospects, planned steps and main objectives for next year as soon as possible, so we will follow this year's nine-year practice that the government will submit next year's budget to Parliament in the first half of this year. There have been opinions that would allow us to work with more precise figures if the draft was submitted in autumn. Sadly, however, unexpected events may continue during a war period, as we have seen in recent days. Instead of waiting for the storm to depart, it is necessary to adapt to stormy circumstances. We have planned a budget that takes account of the dangers we know today, above all the prolonged war. As I have already indicated at the presentation of the draft, budget 2024 is a defence budget. In times of war, Hungary needs a budget that guarantees the security of our country, protects families, pensions, jobs and cuts in overhead. For this reason, next year's budget will focus on strengthening public security and defence. Dear House, Hungary today faces challenges on several fronts. It adds to the prolonged war in our immediate neighbour that the misguided sanctions in Brussels have caused a serious energy crisis in Europe. I would like to quote some of the figures that show how Hungary's energy bill has changed in recent years. In 2020, this energy bill amounted to minus EUR 3.2 billion, minus EUR 6.8 billion in 2021 and then minus EUR 16.6 billion in 2022. From this, my fellow Members can also see that Hungary's energy bill has grown brutally, and the cost of electricity protection is an additional burden of more than HUF 1000 billion for the country. In this critical, transitional period, we hope, the main task is to protect and maintain the results achieved previously. The pillars of the government's value-based policy in this regard remain unchanged. Security requires financial stability and requires a well-performing economy and fiscal discipline. So these are the basics for planning. The government has developed next year's draft budget in line with these objectives, so it is appropriate to guarantee the economic and physical security of the country in addition to improving macroeconomic indicators and to protect the results achieved since 2010. The draft budget for 2024 says that seven serious points can be summarised. On the one hand, it will continue to maintain the regime for the protection of the economy and families. On the other hand, it provides the resources necessary for the country's physical security. [[11.50]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Thirdly, it maintains the family support system and provides financial support for child rearing. Fourthly, it protects the full employment already achieved and supports further job creation. Fifthly, it supports investment, innovation and territorial balance to underpin future economic performance. Sixthly, it retains the purchasing power of pensions and guarantees the payment of the 13th month pension, which has been fully rebuilt and increased. Last but not least, it ensures the financial appreciation of public sector workers. Last year, the Hungarian economy expanded despite the serious challenges of the past years, in addition to the government's protection measures, economic operators have increased their mobility and adaptability since 2010. The negative effects of economic slowdown factors have also eased in recent months and international financial and economic developments can move in a more favourable direction by 2024. I would like to highlight, first of all, the decline in energy prices, the ever-increasing decline in inflation, which will have a positive impact on the economic outlook, and so the government will expect dynamic growth again next year after this year's temporary slowdown. Based on the results protected in times of crisis, the Hungarian economy can therefore continue to catch up. Dear House, Before reviewing the budget figures, it is worth examining the situation that has arisen today on a broader time horizon. This allows for a more precise understanding of the aspects behind budget planning. In recent years, the Hungarian economy has faced many challenges. After the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, the war in our neighbourhood, sanctions and their far-reaching consequences are causing extreme uncertainty and economic slowdown. Today, however, we are making great use of the fact that we have not wasted the years of 2010 in the field of economic policy. After 2010, Hungary's national government made economic policy work-based. We have managed to coordinate effectively the internal resources of the Hungarian economy, thus strengthening both public finances and companies and families. This was also very necessary, as in 2010, left-wing-liberal governments left close to state failure. The budget deficit was even above 6 per cent on average between 2002 and 2010 and did not go below 3 per cent in any year. For example, when there was an abundance of money all over the world in 2006, we had a 9.3 percent hole in the budget. The national government reduced the deficit to 2.9 percent on average from 2010 to the pandemic, i.e. balanced the budget. We see the same in the case of public debt. Debt increased every year from 2002 to 2010: from 55.6 percent to 80 percent, but from 2010 to 2019 the debt level decreased every year, and at the outbreak of the pandemic it stood at only 65 percent. The outstanding performance of the 2010s is also demonstrated by the typically high growth of gross domestic product. Between 2014-19, Hungarian economic growth averaged 4.1 percent per year, compared to 2.1 percent of the EU average growth. The main reading of these processes is that the Hungarian economy has left behind previous internal problems since 2010 and its resilience has increased enormously by the end of the decade. Thanks to this decade-long development, the negative economic developments caused by the pandemic have only temporarily reduced the performance of the Hungarian economy, and that is why we have a strong base today to counterbalance the negative processes caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war and sanctions. Hungary has responded successfully to the economic challenges of the coronal virus epidemic: in 2020 the volume of the Hungarian economy decreased by less than the EU average, while in 2021 Hungary achieved a record increase of 7.2 percent. This momentum has been broken by the war conflict and the resulting crisis in sanctions last summer. Despite all these difficulties, Hungary was able to register a 4.6 percent increase in 2022, so our catch-up to the EU average continued last year. I note that Hungary has achieved this growth by failing to receive some of the EU's resources for us today. Thus, over the last two years, this increase has been achieved from a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis other Member States. It is not unfounded to assume that if we had received these funds, the Hungarian economy would have been able to achieve a growth of well over 5 percent last year. In addition to sanctioned inflation and temporary economic slowdown, we are still successfully defending the results achieved earlier today. In fact, despite adverse circumstances, there have been record performances in employment and investments in a number of areas, for example, in recent years. The labour market situation is favourable in both historical and international comparisons. According to the latest data published at the end of May, the employment rate was well above the EU average and the unemployment rate was below 4%. We have therefore managed to make use of labour market reserves in recent years, to activise them, and the employment of women, young people and older people, in general, has increased significantly thanks to targeted programmes and tax reduction measures. Maybe it's a sentence about investments. The investment rate rose to over 28 percent, reaching the highest level in the European Union. And the high level of investment is the basis for our hope that the economic performance that we have achieved in recent years will be able to continue, since capacity expansion and improvements in key sectors will further strengthen Hungarian competitiveness. Dear House, What do we expect from this year? In the first half of this year, we are counting on the modest performance of the economy. However, from the second half of the year onwards, consumption could also start to recover as inflation has already been felt and real incomes have increased. External factors can also improve, which is what I referred to earlier. World market prices for raw materials and energy may remain more moderate compared to the very high levels previously experienced, and therefore a recovery in world trade is expected. The government is therefore committed to reducing inflation to one digit by the end of the year. For this reason, next year's budget is planned to increase the rate of increase by 6 per cent per year on average, allowing real wages to increase again and the consumption of households to become more dynamic. The better development of economic conditions and lower interest rates also forecast an increase in investments next year. What will become of growth? The capacity-enhancing developments over the past period guarantee that manufacturing exports will recover and that the export of services can continue to increase, so net exports will significantly support next year's growth. Based on all this, the government says that in 2024 there is a 4 percent economic expansion. Dear House, To sum up, the target is inflation of 6 per cent and economic growth of 4 per cent in the economy. Our main objective is to preserve the stability of the country in public finances, and therefore in the budget, to improve the balance indicators. That is why we are continuing the disciplined fiscal policy, reducing the level of public debt and budget deficits. The government debt-to-GDP ratio is reduced to below 70 per cent this year, to 69.7 per cent, after 73.3 per cent of last year's gross domestic product, and this may fall further to 66.7 per cent next year. The latter, by the way, is about 10 percentage points lower than the average of the European Union. [[12.00]] In terms of the budget deficit, as you have already seen in the draft, a deficit of less than 3 per cent is planned to 2.9, which is expected in 2024. This decreasing deficit target ensures that the budget can be financed. At the same time, this deficit goal also guarantees that the resources needed to preserve Hungary's security, maintain the results achieved, and thus provide economic incentives, support for families and businesses are available. While the maintenance of the reduction will take place through the Rezief Protection Fund, which will protect the financial security of families and economic operators, the Defence Fund will ensure the country's physical security. What is the purpose of the Rehabilitation Fund and the Defence Fund? In 2024 too, the Rezségvédelmi Fund ensures the protection of Hungarian families and businesses against the energy prices that go away due to war and sanctions. The Fund also provides compensation for central budgetary bodies and municipalities, support for church and civil institution-holders and public-owned companies. There is no change in the revenues of the fund here, it is the sectors in which the market processes have created a significant extra profit, and this is complemented by the support of the central budget, as my colleagues in the tax laws will see that the extra-profit tax will be launched next year. The Rezsivédelmi Fund therefore, once again, assists in the payment of the accounts of families, state and municipal bodies, institutions and companies. What is the purpose of the Defense Fund? The Defence Fund will continue and speed up the development of forces. Keeping Hungary's peace and security is a priority, and we therefore need a modern, strong army to meet today's challenges. The fund is also financed by the temporary special tax on extra-profit, given that we continue to expect social engagement from sectors that have achieved extra-profit in the past difficult period. One of the priority areas of the 2024 budget is therefore security, which can also be seen from the amounts spent on defence. There will be 29 percent more resources in the area in a year. This means that defence spending will increase more than eight times in the next year's budget compared to 2010. In order to maintain security, we need to strengthen the Hungarian forces that were decommissioned before 2010. Law enforcement spending is over HUF 1300 billion next year, which will also represent a significant increase of about three times compared to 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to time limits, allow me to highlight four areas from the draft budget that they have received. These four areas include support for health care, education, pensioners and families. Let me start with this, because this is a priority government programme and a goal. The government also prioritises support for Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing in recent times of war, thus providing three and a half times more support for families than in 2010. The combined amount of family policy spending and tax incentives is thus over HUF 3300 billion. So we are keeping the tax and contribution reductions that we have introduced in recent years. This applies to ensuring that young people under the age of 25 are free of property, to women who have children during 30 years, and also to the long-term exemption for mothers who have four or more children. Therefore, these benefits are included in the draft submitted. Let me also highlight two elements here: the amount of support for children's meals will continue to increase, this framework will be increased next year, and we will also increase the free provision of textbooks. It is recalled that the free provision of textbooks has become full since the academic year 2020/2021. The funds allocated for this purpose will therefore be increased in 2024. The second area is the protection of pensioners. Our retired countrymen deserve special support, as they have worked for decades to build the country, while raising the future generation. What is the government's pension policy goal? The government's aim is to ensure the integrity of pensions and the long-term sustainability of the pension system, as well as the recognition of the role of women in the pension system. In 2010, the government undertook to preserve the real value of pensions, and therefore, despite economic difficulties, the coverage of the inflation-following pension increase is still guaranteed next year. The budget resources available for pensions and pension-like benefits in 2024 exceed HUF 6540 billion, which is the largest item of the budget. The rate of pensions planned for next year will increase by 6 percent, so I can safely say that if we compare this to the 2010 level, we can already talk about more than double in pensions, and the purchasing power of pensions is much higher than in 2010 and more than 20 percent in 2010. In addition to the pension increase, however, we are also helping pensioners with additional measures. Let me tell you about these. For the 13th month's pension and care, we will spend some HUF 490 billion in the next year's budget. The allowance taken by the left during the pandemic in 2009 has been gradually rebuilt since 2021, and in view of the results of the economy, pensioners and pensioners have been receiving the 13th month pension for the entire month since 2022, with a total number of around 2.5 million. If the expected economic growth rate exceeds 3.5 per cent, the general government balance target will be met even if pensioners are entitled to a pension premium in November. So we're counting on paying the pensioners next year. Perhaps we should also remind you that in recent years, when economic growth made it possible, we have paid a pension premium and a one-off allowance five times. In 2024 the amount allocated to this pension premium was placed in a provision, so if and if economic growth reaches 4 percent, we will pay for it. Left-wing governments have never paid pensions to pensioners. [[Gergely Harvestó: But we introduced it!]] Another element is that women's role in the family will be recognised in 2024 and women with 40 years of entitlement will be able to receive an early retirement pension. Finally, we also support older people who, as pensioners, want to remain active players in the labour market, so that they want to work. For them, we will continue to maintain the social contribution tax and contribution exemption of pensioners' income in 2024. The third area that can be highlighted is health care. For health purposes, more than HUF 3200 billion will be available next year. Here, too, let me give you a comparison: the last budget submitted by the left-wing government in 2010 was HUF 1200 billion for this purpose, so that is more than HUF 2000 billion more than the amount we spend in the budget for health purposes. The largest item in health insurance benefits, about 80 percent of this amount, is curative-preventive benefits. We will also provide additional resources for this, raising this year's budget by some HUF 247 billion. The budget therefore provides the necessary cover for three very important things. The two-stage wage development programme: here I would remind you that after doctors' wage increases, nurses and nurses will also raise their wages, and the rates that are customary in Western Europe, Germany or Austria will be reached, i.e. 36-37 percent of medical wages will have to be achieved. It's one of the important assets we provide. The second is support for additional income for those who continue to work in addition to pensions, and the third is the continuation of previous health wage increases programmes. [[12.10]] The bill also includes HUF 31 billion for tasks related to the development of the health care system, so there will be additional funding not only for wage increases, operation, but also for improvements. We also increase the budgetary resources that can be used to support medicines, and there is also an increased support framework for the financial benefits of health insurance. In addition, I would also like to add that we will provide additional resources for health IT license fees, the purchase of ambulances and the further purchase of vaccines, so we will fully increase the health support framework. Let me just say one more sentence about developments. The government has also set itself the objective of improving the functioning of the supply system, in addition to the increased framework, we want to make the operation of the institutions more efficient. To this end, real estate management tasks will be transferred to DG Procurement and Supply in the future. Last but not least, let me also say a short, perhaps extended sentence about education. We will also increase the resources for education. This year it was about HUF 2800 billion, it will grow to 3400 next year, if I compare it to 2010, this means a two-and-a-half-fold increase. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me also talk about wage developments, the issue of wages. Recognition of the work of public service workers and preservation of the results achieved will also be a key element in next year's budget. We have been making wage increases in the public sector year after year since 2012, and we would like to continue this year and the following year. Among other things, a new increase in wages for teachers and vocational training workers, a two-step increase in wages for law enforcement and defence professionals, which started in 22 will be completed in 24 hours, a raise for government employees will be granted from July this year, and the wages for health workers and health workers will increase again this year and next year, as I have just said. Of course, next year's budget will cover all wage developments and wage increases that have already been made and are decided for 24 hours. Dear House, Allow me to also address the EU's subsidies. I have to tell you that the financial period 2014-20 will end in 2023, with a significant rise in the programmes of the EU budget cycle 2021-27. So I don't want to open the theoretical question whether these EU funds are coming in or not. [[Gergely Harvesto: Why?]] , Hungary is counting on these grants, this money is due to Hungary, and accordingly these were planned in the next year's budget. In terms of the programmes of two EU cycles, we expect a total payment of more than HUF 3600 billion and an EU revenue of nearly HUF 2400 billion, while Hungary, as a member of the Union, will also make its contribution. This will be roughly 700 billion forints next year, 692 billion forints, to be exact. Half of the 2024 expenditure will already be linked to the new Cohesion Operational Programmes for the period 2021-27. The priority objectives of the programmes will continue to be to increase economic and social competitiveness, particularly in less-favoured areas. The second largest item of EU spending and revenue in 2024 is the funds in the EU language called the Instrument for Restoration and Resistance, which we also expect to receive, the planned payment of HUF 770 billion. It should be recalled that Hungary has contributed to the common EU borrowing for which this source has been created, but I consider it unprecedented that, together with several other countries, Hungary has not received these funds even after the period of the 2020-21 pandemic, but we hope that this year we will be able to close the controversial issues and that this source will also be available. Finally, let me tell you about the new rural development aid. These are included in the so-called CAP strategic plan, with more targeted support for smaller economies, increased sectoral contribution and contribution to the European Union's environmental and climate policy objectives. The Hungarian co-financing of the plan has been increased to 80 per cent in the EU, which means that the planned rural development programmes will be paid by around HUF 650 billion in 2024. In addition to all this, of course, these funds will be complemented this year by direct agricultural subsidies received by farmers, agricultural enterprises, the planned expenditure of which is HUF 628 billion, as indicated in the submitted draft, as in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, A few words about the municipalities. In recent years, we have developed a system that works well and efficiently. The government transfers from the richest settlements through a balancing system to disadvantaged settlements. That's what the mayor is complaining about. I think that this system should continue, because it has been able to significantly reduce territorial disparities in recent years. We increase the resources needed to support the operation of local governments, which are guaranteed, HUF 1050 billion is included in this budget next year, which is higher than this year's item. As the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have increased significantly, this affects the municipalities, so the government also provides budgetary support for the payment of increased wages. This is the second important element in supporting the municipal system. The third is the promotion of energy prices. I told you about this before. This year as well as next year, we will provide additional support for municipalities in the Rezsefence Fund. The fourth element is support for investments, where there are also significant resources. These come partly from domestic and partly from EU sources. The total value of these will be more than HUF 500 billion next year, so it will be available for investments in the municipal system. I also have to say in one sentence that greater economic growth also raises business tax revenues significantly in settlements, and this will increase the room for manoeuvre of settlements. All in all, the municipalities can manage some HUF 4186 billion in the following year, to which the central budget will provide HUF 1050 billion in support. Dear House, Fellow Members! On behalf of the Government, I would like to thank the Fiscal Council for reviewing the bill and drafting its opinion. According to this, the bill complies with the requirements of the Fundamental Law. The State Audit Office has done the same, thank you for the work done. He examined in detail the design documents and the draft budget. It should be noted, however, that the Budget Council has summarised in three points the recommendations that we have carefully considered. One is early planning, which is what I said, and we do not want to change this nine-year practice, because we do not think that next autumn could be planned under much different economic conditions, and if that is the case, we will not waste several months preparing families and businesses for the next year. The second may be summarised as being optimistic or more optimistic than the honourable members and colleagues of the Fiscal Council. I think that there is reason for this optimism, because, as I said about the processes, they have started to develop more positively for the Hungarian economy. We're not over all the difficulties, but I can safely say that after this year and last year, 2024 could be a better year. Finally, the third point is the question of the loss of the central bank. In this regard, indeed, in a letter ex post clarification, the President of the Council informed me that the loss of around 0.5 per cent of gross domestic product is expected in terms of the central bank, but the State Audit Office has already clarified this, he wrote that losses are expected to be around HUF 430 billion. [[12.20]] Well here, since these figures were produced already after Parliament's submission, they will be settled in Parliament's debate. What I should probably mention here is that it is not a Hungarian specialty, because there are different practices in the European Union to deal with the losses of the central bank, from the point that no losses will be reimbursed to the point that there is immediate and full compensation. The issue has become an EU problem, as high interest rates everywhere have raised the question that the central banks of those countries are operating with a significant loss. This will therefore have to be done at the end of the parliamentary debate and by the end of 7 July. Thank you once again for the cooperation of the staff of both organisations, and I also thank the colleagues involved in the planning for their cooperation. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the Government of Hungary is presenting to Parliament a budget that ensures the physical and financial security of Hungary in the post-pest war and sanctions situation. Family support will continue next year, pensions will continue to rise to the extent of inflation, and 13 months' pensions will remain. The most important task during the Russian-Ukrainian war and the energy sanctions in Brussels is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, to ensure the country's energy supply, and to protect the cost reduction. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I would ask you to discuss the proposed bill and with the necessary amendments, but, if possible, please accept the proposal without it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-46	Thank you for the Minister's speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Windisch, President of the State Audit Office, in a 30-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2023-06-13-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, It is an honour and an important task for the President of the State Audit Office to present the main conclusions of the Court's opinion on the draft budget law before the general debate is started. It is an honour, since the adoption of the Act on its annual budget is one of the most important tasks of the Parliament of each country, and only a few SAIs have a mandate to support the parliament of their country in its opinion on this important decision. There are also two organisations in Hungary, the president of which, at the beginning of the plenary debate on the draft budget law, will personally inform the Members of Parliament about the contexts and risks that the organisation it represents draws to the attention of the decision-makers. However, we are not talking about duplication, we are talking about a well-thought-out division of labour. One of the distinctive features of this is the fact that the Budget Council is examining the draft budget law proposal and sending its opinion to the government in order to enable the Government to take account of the Council's views on the budget before submitting in Parlement. On the other hand, the State Audit Office, as the financial and economic audit body of the Parliament, submits its opinion on the draft budget law directly to Parliament. Another feature of the division of labour is that the Fiscal Council examines the soundness of the budget primarily in terms of macroeconomic conditions and evaluates the realistic feasibility of the projections underlying the draft fiscal law and that its risks threaten the fulfilment of the deficit target and the sovereign debt rule. If the Fiscal Council considers that the achievement of the government macroeconomic projections is realistic, then the State Court of Auditors should not re-qualify it, all the more so because its President is a member of the Fiscal Council and supports the drawing up of the Council's opinion by means of the Court of Auditors' analyses. Consequently, the State Audit Office considers the macroeconomic projections, as set out in the Annex to the explanatory memorandum to the proposal for a budget law, as appropriate and assesses that the appropriations of the bill have been drawn up in line with this. It is therefore not the task of the State Court of Auditors to repeat the signals of the Fiscal Council on the uncertainties of the macroeconomic environment. As a member of the Council on Budgets and as a signatory to its opinion, I naturally share the view that the achievement of an optimistic but achievable government macroeconomic projections compared to several other domestic and international forecasts is subject to risks, but the numerical justification and feasibility of specific appropriations can only be assessed if the forecasts are taken as given. Honourable Members, I began by saying that it is an honor to help Parliament decide on an important subject such as the adoption of the budget. The honor in this task is also an obligation, an obligation to perform the task as best as possible. I therefore considered it important to renew the methodology on the basis of which the Court of Auditors is preparing its opinion on the draft budget law. Our starting point was the Law on the State Audit Office of Hungary, which clearly states that the State Audit Office is giving an opinion to Parliament on the merits of the bill on the central budget and on the fulfilment of revenue appropriations. The methodology is available to everyone on the SAO's website, so I will only present its main elements. The new methodology is a major professional step forward in creating the conditions for so-called projection, since the State Court of Auditors has to give an opinion on the merits of the proposed budget law as a whole. Within a short period of two weeks for the preparation of the opinion, the validity of all appropriations cannot be assessed. Based on the new methodology, the reliability of the appropriations selected by statistical sampling has been assessed by calculation, ensuring that the revenue and expenditure appropriations selected are equal to 90 per cent of the total revenue and expenditure and that any appropriations are randomly included in the sample. This methodological development ensures that it can be projected, i.e. that the SAO, on the basis of the sample, can establish with 95% reliability whether the overall budget of the bill is based on calculations. The criterion for this is that 90% of the appropriations assessed are justified. The second methodological development focused on a deeper assessment of the feasibility of revenue. In terms of feasibility, the revenue appropriations for which the total amount exceeds 0,15 per cent of the total revenue are assessed. We have put together a multi-factorial approach to assess the impact of the most important factors affecting revenue developments in the assessment of feasibility. The criterion for achieving the overall revenue allocation of the bill was that 95 per cent of the revenue appropriations evaluated could be met. On the expenditure side, the so-called top-up appropriations pose a direct risk for the development of the deficit, as they may be exceeded without an amendment, i.e. the creation of collateral, if the amount envisaged is not sufficient to fulfil the public mission. Therefore, the new methodology has been extended to include a new element, with an assessment of the top-up appropriations of more than 0.15% of the total expenditure. In their case, the Court assessed that their planned amount was likely to be sufficient to finance a public task. All appropriations opened from above could be classified as sufficient if 95 per cent of the amount of appropriations evaluated was classified as sufficient. The underachievement of revenue appropriations deemed to be risky in the evaluation and the risks of inadequacies in expenditure appropriations opened from above have been quantified and their amount compared with the amount of free-use reserves included in the draft budget law. If the latter exceeded the value of the quantified risks, the reserves were considered sufficient to manage the risks. Based on the methodology, the draft budget law can be considered as sound if the following three conditions are met: estimates of the draft law on the central budget are based on calculations, revenue appropriations can be met, the risks identified do not jeopardise the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule and the legal requirements on deficit, taking into account the reserves. Consequently, in its opinion, the State Audit Office does not assess that the deficit target set out in the bill or the value of the debt indicator at the end of 2024 formally complies with the legal requirements, but takes into account the risks to non-compliance, the reserves available for their management and gives an opinion on the merits of the draft budget law. [[12.30]] I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the genre of the SAO opinion on the legitimacy of the law and the fulfilment of revenue appropriations does not include the political, social or economic policy assessment of the budget law. The decision to allocate resources is a sovereign task, not of the Court of Auditors carrying out financial and economic audits. It is our task to carry out the meticulous work by which we can inform Parliament with sufficient certainty that the many appropriations of the bill and the bill can, overall, be regarded as justified under the specific conditions, and to draw attention to the appropriations which could be further strengthened in their merits, or, in the case of revenue appropriations, there is a risk that the actual revenue will be less than foreseen. By forwarding these, I will present two of the most important conclusions of the Court's opinion and then I will open up the basis for them. According to the State Audit Office's assessment, the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2024 is well founded and its revenue estimates can be met. Of the appropriations for the bill, 67 revenue appropriations selected for the purpose of assessing the merits of the calculations amounted to 97% of the total revenue, 100% of which is based on calculations. The selected 161 expenditure appropriations accounted for 90% of the total expenditure, of which 98,7 per cent is calculated. For three appropriations, the calculation basis was not entirely adequate. Overall, the estimates of the bill can be considered to be justified by calculations. The total amount of revenue allocated to the bill amounted to 86 per cent of the total revenue. Only 0.2 percent of this identified the SAO's feasibility risk. In the case of excise duty, we have assumed that the revenue is HUF 53 billion below the appropriations, so the estimated risk of non-compliance with the relevant revenue appropriations is HUF 53 billion. On this basis, overall, the revenue estimates of the bill can be achieved. However, I must point out here once again that this conclusion assumes that the government's macroeconomic projections for 2024 will be implemented. However, as a virtue of planning, it should be pointed out that the rapporteur has already taken into account, when setting the appropriations, that the economic processes of 2023 may differ somewhat from the government projections establishing the law amending the budget for 2023 and therefore, in the case of more tax revenues, he has calculated less than the appropriations for this year's expected performance as the base of the budget for 2024. However, in order to ensure that revenue can be achieved, Parliament still has work to do, as the government expects that, as a result of the amendment of tax laws and some other laws, budget revenues will be nearly HUF 350 billion higher than expected in the current legislative environment. If these amendments were not made, there would be a hole in the budget for 2024. The total value of the substantial expenditure appropriations of the bill opened from above amounted to 47 per cent of the total expenditure amount. The evaluation of their satisfaction has led to the fact that appropriations do not provide sufficient coverage for only 0.1 percent of the amount of appropriations selected. Consequently, the sum of the adequacy risk is HUF 17 billion. In order to address the risks identified on the basis of the evaluation of appropriations, the extraordinary government measures will cover the amount of HUF 220 billion as a reserve. In light of this, the SAO has assessed that the expected deficit remains below the value set out in the Act on Hungary's economic stability, i.e. 3 percent of gross domestic product. Based on the justification of the budget law proposal for 2024, the deficit in the government sector is HUF 2506.5 billion, 2.9 percent of nominal GDP planned for 2024, which also complies with that legislation taking into account the identified and manageable risks of the appropriations set out in the draft budget law. However, there is a significant risk that does not appear in the draft budget law of 2024; this is the central budget's obligation to pay for the loss-making of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. As a result of the monetary policy aimed at protecting the Hungarian economy and curbing inflation, the Hungarian National Bank will be forced to account for serious losses in 2023 after 2022. In the event of this occurrence, under the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, the difference between equity and subscribed capital must be reimbursed directly by the central budget within five years, in equal instalments each year, in favour of the reserve of the Hungarian National Bank. The amount of compensation in 2024 under current legislation is expected to reach HUF 430 billion, i.e. around 0.5 percent of GDP. Consequently, taking into account the reimbursement obligation, without mitigation or compensatory measures, the deficit in the government sector would exceed 3 per cent of GDP. This risk needs to be addressed in order to meet the stated requirement of the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary. Risk management is possible not only through fiscal, but also through legal and accounting regulation, all the more so because it is a general phenomenon and a general problem that can be considered throughout the world and especially in the Member States of the European Union using the national currency. At the same time, the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule would not be affected by the payment of the expected repayment obligation for 2024, as the bill provides a basis for a 3 percentage point improvement in the value of the sovereign debt indicator, thus reducing the sovereign debt ratio, even if the deficit and, consequently, the government debt ratio had increased by 0.5 to 0.7 percent of GDP. According to the bill, the rate of the sovereign debt ratio planned for 31 December 2024 will be reduced from 69,7 per cent expected at the end of this year to 66,7 per cent. Such a planned improvement means that the government debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law and set out in detail in the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary would be fulfilled even if, as a result of the different risks, public debt increased significantly more than planned, or the pace of economic growth would be significantly below the government's forecast rate of 4%. For the precise determination of the tolerance, we have calculated that the government debt rule would not be met if the government debt increased by more than HUF 2442 billion in addition to the planned GDP growth, or if the real value of GDP fell by more than 0.3 percent with the planned government debt and price increase rate. Of course, in reality, the two components of the sovereign debt indicator cannot be considered independent of each other, i.e. they can affect public debt and economic growth at the same time as risks occur. Nevertheless, it is reassuring that, to comply with the sovereign debt rule, an implicit reserve of HUF 2442 billion, above 2.8 percent of the planned GDP, was incorporated into the draft budget law. The large improvement in the sovereign debt ratio and the deficit-to-GDP ratio compared to 2023 contributes not only to fiscal stabilisation, but also to improving the balance of the national economy and to reducing inflation, as the reduction of fiscal impulses reduces demand. In previous years, public finances have exceeded their revenues, but additional expenditure has been used in 2020 to control the epidemic and to protect the economy, to restart the economy in 2021, and to compensate for the explosion in energy prices in 2022. The justified priority of these objectives was accompanied by the fact that budget bodies' expenditure appropriations did not keep pace with rising inflation in 2022, and the same could be said from 2023. In 2024 much less, but still more than HUF 1000 billion, the central budget will have to spend on maintaining public security. Interest expenditure continues to grow dynamically, and in order to meet our commitment to NATO, i.e. to achieve military spending of 2% of GDP, defence expenditure had to be increased by 55 percent. Therefore, the implementation of the budget law proposal for 2024 forces central budgetary bodies and local governments to further save. As head of the body responsible for controlling the use of public funds, I am committed to saving public money. The same can be said of the budget headings, including the heads of constitutional bodies and institutions not governed by the government, who have accepted a reduction in their budget appropriations. [[12.40]] The Court's opinion contains a detailed set of these areas. However, the work for them is now really beginning, as the decline in real value of their budgets, up to 30 per cent, forces rational saving measures, where appropriate, the development of staff reduction plans and their implementation, without prejudice to the exercise of their public tasks. Otherwise, there is a risk of increasing their budget support during the year in order to maintain their operation, which would jeopardise the achievement of the deficit target. One of the most important legislative tasks of the Parliament is the adoption of the state budget. This is an important task because the Finance Act itself is a document of high importance for the functioning of the State, a compass and a framework for the operation of the State. It is a compass which can fulfil this function if it is credible, supported and its implementation is sufficiently strict and disciplined, i.e. exceeding appropriations is permissible only in duly justified cases. The government responsible for the implementation of the budget has a number of possibilities to provide additional appropriations for the performance of a task by means of redeploying transfers, authorising the overrun of certain appropriations opened from above, redeploying the free remains of the previous year and creating rules other than the Public Finance Act in the event of an emergency. In uncertain circumstances, it may be justified if the powers of the government or even the heads of the bodies managing the chapter are so wide as to allow for flexible adaptation. The government has made use of this option since 2019. This is illustrated by the fact that between 2019 and 2022, around the 49 combined expenditure appropriations in the general government balance sheet, for 28 appropriations, which represented a total of 57 per cent of actual expenditure exceeding the statutory appropriations by more than 10 per cent in at least one year. In 2019, 11, 15, 2021, 16 and 2022, 12 combined expenditure appropriations exceeded the statutory allocation by at least 10 per cent. During a critical period, such as the years 2020 and 2021, this is justified. It is positive that in 2022 the total number of consolidated expenditure appropriations exceeding at least 10 per cent of the statutory appropriations fell by one quarter. I consider it necessary to continue this reduction, i.e. to increase budgetary rigour and budgetary discipline in 2023 and 2024, because the strengthening of savings as one of the basic principles of public finance management can only be expected if budget expenditure appropriations represent a hard limit, i.e. they are exceeded and amended during the year only in exceptional cases. In order to strengthen the orientation of the budget, I also shared the point of the opinion of the Budgetary Council, which, recognising the benefits of spring budgeting, also drew attention to the uncertainties of planning, their consequences. The risk I see is that, in the case of early adoption, the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of the budget in the reference year is added to the uncertainties of the base year. Finally, I would like to thank the head of the body managing each budget chapter and its staff involved for having fulfilled their reporting obligations on an accurate and timely basis, thereby contributing to the Court's sound opinion on the draft budget law and thus supporting Parliament's decision on the basis of the more substantiated information and knowledge of the risks. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-48	Thank you very much, President László Windisch. I now give the floor to President Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, in a 30-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2023-06-13-49	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Minister, I thank you for the opportunity to summarise and explain the opinion of the Fiscal Council on the draft budget law for 2024. The Council set up and published its opinion on the draft bill for the Government at its meeting on 23 May 2023. The government has given me an answer, which I will discuss later. The Board, on the basis of its mandate in the Fundamental Law, examined the merits of the draft budget from the point of view and unity of its function, thus analysing its macroeconomic background, revenue and expenditure in terms of sustainability of short- and longer-term equilibrium requirements and the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule. Dear Parliament, In recent years, the Council, in its opinion on the budget, had to take account first of the exceptional circumstances caused by the outbreak of the Crown Virus and then by the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the sanctions imposed in response to it, the economic consequences of the economic restructuring of the world economy. Unfortunately, even when examining the budget for 2024, serious risks have been identified. In its assessment of the draft central budget for 2024, the Council reviewed macroeconomic and public finance developments that were its background and base. Please allow me, as the Council did, first to recall very briefly the macroeconomic and public finances of previous years. In 2020, the corona virus epidemic hijacked the Hungarian economy from a balanced and strong growth path, which has also seriously affected public finances. As a result of fiscal and monetary measures taken to re-launch the economy, pre-punching performance had already been achieved in 2021 and a 7.2 percent increase. The momentum lasted even in 2022, when the development of our economy was 4.6 percent. The lack of public finances and the management of public debt were also successful, as the excessive deterioration in the balance in 2020 was followed by a gradual improvement. Dear House, The Council also analysed the expected developments in 2023 as a direct base for the budget for 2024. Macroeconomic and budgetary developments in 2022 have significantly changed the implementation conditionality compared to the assumed date of adoption of the Act, making it inevitable to amend the adopted budget law of 2023. The war in our neighbourhood, the international economic response, has further strengthened the inflation process, the outbreak of energy crisis and measures to stabilise the economy, otherwise the external market processes have slowed down economic growth. The government, assessing these basic processes, initiated an amendment to the budget law of 2023, with an increase of 1.5 per cent in its referral. On the basis of its expectations, the consumption volume of households can only increase by 0.9 percent compared to the previous year, while gross fixed capital formation falls by 1 percentage point and the number of employees can be 0.2 percent, including 1 percent lower in the public sector than in the previous year. A very modest increase in foreign trade turnover was calculated by 2.8 percent for exports and 1.4 percent for imports. The redesigned macroeconomic path projected a 15 per cent increase in consumer prices by 2023, which is essentially the same as the actual rate in the previous year, 14.5 per cent. Although market forecasts suggest an annual inflation rate of 18-19 per cent in 2023 is not unthinkable, it is possible to reduce it to less than 10 per cent by the end of the year. In the second half of this year, both consumer demand and private investment can recover as a result of slowing inflation and base effects. Economic growth can be moderate and slightly positive on an annual average. Several factors support this. Although the volume of investments is more moderate in 2023 compared to the previous year, due to the relatively high investment rate in recent years, the industry is constantly expanding with new capacities. [[12.50]] If last year's drought year is not repeated, agriculture can also make a significant contribution to the annual performance. Major export potential services logistics, transport, accommodation services, their development and large investments brought here by foreign operating capital play an important role among the growth-support factors. In addition to the assets already used, the government will help Hungarian SMEs and large companies to emerge from the crisis and expand their exports through low-interest investment, working capital and green investment loans supported by the State under the Baross Gábor reindustrialisation loan programme. In the first quarter of 2023, the cash flow deficit of the central government subsystem was 61.5 percent of the annual appropriations. Revenues were not pro rata to time, and delivery was 23,1 per cent of the appropriations. The declarations are a reflection of more moderate economic activity. In 2023, more than one type of tax is expected to fall below the allocation. Expenditure was higher than pro rata term, amounting to 26.4 per cent of the appropriations. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the budget for 2024, I would like to point out, above all, that there is no substantive difference between the draft opinion of the Council and the bill submitted. Thus, the opinion of the Council also applies to the bill submitted to Parliament. The Budgetary Council, when assessing the merits of the budget for 2024, concluded that the draft budget law estimates an economic growth of more than 4 per cent than the average of the known domestic and international forecasts. This should be accompanied by an increase in household consumption, a new dynamic increase in gross fixed capital formation and an increase in exports above imports. The Council considers that economic growth in terms of government projections may take place in the event of favourable developments in external and internal conditions, but it is subject to a number of risks. On the one hand, the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the EU's response to it continue to negatively affect the Hungarian economy, although the energy security problems have eased but have not ceased, and the issue of the payment of the funds from the European Union to our country has not been resolved, it has been delayed. On the other hand, the implementation of the government projections would require private sector investments to compensate for a significant decline in public investment expenditure in real terms, and the dynamics of Hungarian exports, with the resulting competitive capacities, will significantly exceed the growth rate of export markets. The government considers that the planned recovery of consumption can be facilitated by a 6-percent increase in consumer prices much lower than in previous years. In addition to the tight labour market for years, the number of people employed can increase by 0.4 percent, which can be achieved in the competitive sector. The number of unemployed is falling. However, a moderate increase in the number of employees indicates that the labour force reserve of the economy is being exhausted, so that it can and must be built on the improvement of labour productivity. After strong wage increases in 2022 and 2023, an increase of 10.7 per cent in the competition sector and 8.9 per cent in the fiscal sector is expected in 2024. Despite these negative signs of external market developments, the planned exports accounted for 5.9 percent, while imports increased by 4.3 percent in the draft submitted by the government. The Council considers that a critical factor in the achievement of the macroeconomic projections is the ability of export dynamics to significantly exceed the increase in imports. Although the development of export capacities is well-known on the supply side, the growth rate of exports is in order, but the expected expansion of the markets is significantly below the international projections. Another critical factor is the planned 3.7 percent increase in gross fixed capital formation. As the state's investment expenditure is also falling in real terms, no further rapid rise in housing is expected, so the planned growth rate should be achieved by increasing private investment. The Council also supported the efforts to improve the balance of public finances by 2024. In order to achieve a balance between the Hungarian economy and the budget, it was already considered necessary to reduce the deficit of the government sector to below 3 per cent of GDP. The draft budget law is in line with this. In 2024 the deficit in the government sector is reduced by 1 percentage point compared to 2023, to 2.9 percent, below the Maastricht criterion. At the same time, the Council considered that the achievement of these objectives was also subject to risks. One of them is that the expected economic growth is not achieved, which would reduce the revenue from the budget, and the completion of revenues in 2024 also carries a risk, in particular in the event of a possible underachievement of consumption-related revenues in 2023. The Council also saw a risk that the actual appropriations of the budgetary bodies would be significantly lower than the expected price increases in 2022 and 2024, taking into account energy compensation. Several non-governmental institutions' operational appropriations are falling by 10% compared to 2023, resulting in a very significant decline in real terms in these institutions. Without targeted measures to save and rationalise tasks, there is a risk that maintaining the functioning of budgetary bodies may require large-scale unplanned expenditure during the year 2024. All of this involves operational quality of service risks, as assessed by the Board, which must also be prepared for the reduction of the budget. It would also lead to an increase in the cash flow deficit if the revenue planned from Union funds were to be less than those taken into account in the budget in 2024. Achievement of the deficit target indicates that a small surplus of expenditure or some revenue shortages would increase the deficit above 3 per cent of GDP. Profit-based interest expenditures will increase following the increase in sovereign debt yields and high inflation, reaching 3.8 percent of GDP by 2024. On the basis of the draft, the primary balance calculated without interest expenditure would thus represent a surplus of 0.8 per cent of GDP. The Council further supports the idea set out in the draft that the Minister for Public Finance will prepare by 30 April and 31 October a forecast of the expected annual real growth of the gross product in 2024 and, if this is greater than 4 per cent, a forecast of the annual tax and tax revenue surplus resulting from higher than planned real growth and, at the same time, minus an amount equal to that surplus, the planned amount of pension premium to be paid will reduce the expected deficit target for 2024. [[13.00]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In examining the revenue and expenditure appropriations for the budget for 2024, the Council considered that most of them took into account the impact factors. At the same time, it identified several items as requiring further measures to be taken. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I mentioned the risk of consumption-related taxes earlier, and in the case of corporate tax, the reference period performance, otherwise the major factors affecting revenue developments are nominal GDP, gross fixed capital formation and uncertainties of export growth. The draft budget did not provide any information on the revenue impact of the global minimum tax. Financial institutions' contributions are estimated to be nearly 30 percent less than expected in the previous year. In particular, the additional tax revenue is reduced by 50 percent to 2024 compared to the base. During the analysis of expenditure, it was also apparent to the Council that the objectives were to protect those achieved in previous years, to strengthen defence, to support families, to protect older people and to increase the appreciation of those working in certain areas of the public service. In addition, it should be recognised that the sustainability of the functioning of the budgetary institutions at the level of 2023 and the preservation of their capacity to provide services are subject to strong risks. In addition, the Council's additional operating grants, such as the local authorities, could only be financed by redeployment in 2022, but their amount was still planned in 2023 and 2024. General support for operations and the cost of child catering also slightly exceeds the amount foreseen for 2023, so it is likely that they will not be sufficient to finance the tasks, especially for municipalities with low business tax revenues. The Council considered it appropriate for the Parliament to be informed of the government measures on which the appropriations were based at the time of the submission of the bill. In addition, the Council concluded that the draft budget does not include the loss compensation of the National Bank of Hungary, so it is not in line with the requirement of the Hungarian National Bank Act that, if the amount of capital falls below the subscribed capital at the end of the reference year, the difference will be reimbursed by the central budget within five years, in equal instalments per year, for the benefit of the surplus reserve. The Council considered it necessary for the draft budget law to take into account this expected legal obligation. The Council concluded that, in accordance with the Basic Law, the government debt ratio will continue to decrease significantly to 66,7 per cent after the effective reductions in 2021 and 2022 and by 2024 after the expected reductions in 2023. In view of the planned reduction of 3 percentage points, the Council considers that the reduction in the sovereign debt ratio can be achieved despite macroeconomic and budgetary risks. There is sufficient room for manoeuvre to reduce the debt ratio even if nominal GDP growth is more moderate or the cash flow deficit is higher than planned. On this basis, the Council concluded that the draft budget law for 2024 complies with the government debt rule provided for in the Fundamental Law and the relevant provision of the Stability Act. The Council positively assessed that, based on the outlook for the convergence programme for 2023-2027, the public debt-to-GDP ratio could fall below 60 per cent by 2026. Honourable Parliamentary! The Government's reply to the Council is included in the annex to the bill, and I will therefore comment on it very briefly. The Council's opinion that the 4 percent economic growth planned in the draft budget for next year is subject to risks was not shared by the government, according to it the draft budget contains a general reserve of HUF 220 billion in extraordinary government expenditure, which can be used, among other things, to offset the tax loss in case of slower growth compared to the plan. In addition, the Government may take steps to improve the budgetary balance for the chapters under its control, in the light of interim, potentially less favourable economic data, without prejudice to legally guaranteed expenditure. In the light of the Council's opinion on the revenue and expenditure risks associated with meeting the deficit target, the government added that, as part of the economic policy responses to the current economic situation, it applied a 10% reduction in expenditure on so-called professional programmes and invited the leaders of organisations not under its control to take similar savings measures. Both government and non-governmental organisations have taken and taken measures to ensure the stability of public finances as a whole. For example, unfilled posts in the administrative area are blocked and institutional investments are postponed. These savings measures, according to the government, contribute to returning to a deficit below 3 percent before the pandemic and to a rapid reduction in public debt, while preserving the results of the Hungarian economy over the past decade. At the request of the Council that the draft budget does not include the expected loss compensation of the National Bank of Hungary in 2024, the Government, as Minister, has said today, said that it is important for Parliament to establish its position on the issue of its management and, taking this into account, develop a solution that follows the practice of the Member States of the European Union. The Council considered it appropriate to present all the measures justifying the completion of certain revenue and expenditure appropriations. In his reply, the Government explained that it would take all measures, legislative amendments in time, or, in the case of legislation, submit them to the Parliament, which would provide the basis for expenditure and revenue appropriations. These measures will therefore become known to the public in the presentation and justification of the content of the relevant legislation or of certain measures. The Council also drew attention to the benefits of preparing the spring-summer budget, the uncertainties of planning, their consequences. According to the government, the previous adoption of the next budget law and related tax rules will help families, businesses prepare and adapt to the new aid and tax environment. On the basis of further and more facts, which we have learned after the parliamentary adoption of the bill, any changes will be made by the government within the framework of the law and, if necessary, will be made to Parliament along the lines of economic policy previously defined by the Parliament. In order to raise awareness of the Council's expenditure on child catering, the government summarised: a resource may be transferred from the allocation of municipal accounts to address the potential additional needs of these tasks. [[13.10]] In addition, in order to compensate for the increase in energy prices among local authorities, the appropriation available to municipalities in the Retirement Fund is intended to provide additional support for the main public service tasks. In order to establish that the appropriations for preventive medical care will be reduced to 2024, the Government explained: there has been a transfer of appropriations. The operational tasks of the institutions will be taken over by the Directorate-General for Public Procurement and Supply, and therefore the resources of non-medical expenditure already come from this organisation. According to him, professional resources are actually increasing compared to 2023. Finally, the government agreed with the Council's call to make the structural deficit target of 0.9 per cent available by the end of the period, in line with the convergence programme for 2023-2027. Dear Parliament, At the end of my comment, I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance and his colleagues for their far-reaching support for the Council's work, and our cooperation is exemplary. I would like to thank the staff of the State Audit Office, the Hungarian National Bank, the secretariat of the Council, the analytical bodies involved in the foundation of the opinion of the Board, and experts from certain economic institutions for supporting the broad technical basis of the Council's opinion through independent, alternative macroeconomic and public finance model calculations and sensitivity studies. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your kind attention. I wish you good work in discussing the draft budget law of 2024 and the related amendments. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks. Dr. Zoltán Komáromi applauds.]]
u2023-06-13-50	I would like to thank President Árpád Kovács for his speech. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. During the discussion of the bill on Hungary's central budget in 2024 the Vice-Presidents of Parliament are expected to participate in the debate. The Members of the Vice-President and of the Members of the Vice-President shall, in the event of their opposition, be allowed to hold the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that Vice-President Dóra Dúró, Sándor Lezsák, János Latorcai, Vice-President Lajos Oláh, and myself, will be able to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please make that decision by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my proposal. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, Chairman of the Economic Committee, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2023-06-13-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Speaker, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, People just don't believe that math is simple because they don't realize how complicated life is. János Neumann, Art. The world-famous mathematician of the century and the world's greatest mathematician said this wisdom, and let's face it, he was extremely right about that, too. We are living in times of war, and in times of war Hungary needs a budget that guarantees the country's physical and economic security, protects Hungarian families and jobs, pensions and continues to maintain the system of protection. The long war, the unstable world economy environment and the sanctions imposed by the failed Brussels policy have also put Hungary to serious challenges. However, we will not let our achievements so far be lost, which is why, quite rightly, the government's budget for 2024 on this House's table focuses on public health and defence. Next year's budget preserves the Rezségvédelmi Fund, which helps Hungarian families, state and local government bodies, institutional supporters and the payment of companies' energy bills by more than HUF 1360 billion. Despite the exploding cost increase, we protected the prices reduced by the average consumption, so that a Hungarian family can save HUF 181 thousand on an average monthly basis. For micro-enterprises, the average consumption has been reduced from HUF 165 to HUF 70 per kilowatt, which protects this sector from a huge burden. It is important to mention here, ladies and gentlemen, that, throughout the European Union, through reduced prices, the Hungarian government spends most of the money on public support, with which it takes a heavy burden off the shoulders of Hungarian families and businesses. According to Eurostat, the average price of domestic gas and electricity is the lowest in Hungary across the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, In the budget of 2024 there was more funding for defence expenditure, so the Defence Fund will be further strengthened, with a budget of HUF 1309 billion in 2024, so that all defence expenditure will exceed NATO's expected levels, although not met by dozens of NATO members, of 2% of GDP. One of the priority areas of the budget remains security, which can be seen from the size of the funds available for defence, since defence spending has increased by eight times compared to 2010 and is therefore close to HUF 1800 billion. Law enforcement spending exceeds HUF 1300 billion, which represents more than a three-fold increase compared to 2010. Dear House, As promised, we protect Hungarian families in times of war. In the next year's budget, despite the war and its extraordinary expenses, we spend more than HUF 3300 billion on family support and family tax incentives. Before 2010, when there was trouble, left-wing governments first took family support, and on the other hand, extra burdens were thrown into the necks of Hungarian families. On the other hand, the current civilian government has chosen a different path and believes that it should be kept in mind in wartimes, and that a budget should be prepared that protects families and retains the system of family support. Since 2010, we have been able to build a very strong family support system, which, despite all previous economic challenges, has been maintained and even increased year after year thanks to the outstanding performance of the economy. As a result, next year's budget will amount to three and a half times more than the last left-wing governments spent on family support and family tax relief. The government will also ensure in next year's budget the personal income tax exemption of mothers under the age of 30 or four or more children, as well as of Hungarian citizens under the age of 25, providing free textbook supplies for school children, children's children, maintaining the ged extra and other child-rearing support. Dear Parliament, As Minister said in his exposé, the Government of Hungary retains the value of pensions in wartimes, guarantees a pension increase following inflation, and guarantees the payment of the 13th month pension, which has already been fully rebuilt and increased, to which the government will spend more than HUF 450 billion in 2024. The budgetary resources available for pensions and pension-like benefits will be increased to HUF 6542 billion in 2024, which is a huge sum, and which ensures that what we promised will continue to be committed. We are preserving the real value of pensions, guaranteeing an inflation-following pension increase, which has led pensions, ladies and gentlemen, to double since 2010. In 2022, we were able to pay the pension premium to pensioners for the fifth time thanks to the economic performance, which, as Minister said, the left-wing governments did not once in the period before 2010. [[13.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The amount of pensions has been increased by 15 percent from January 2023 to eliminate the expected inflation effects, since, as promised, the real value of pensions is maintained every year. In addition, old pensioners who have already reached pension rights are supported by the government, but who wish to remain the right active players in the Hungarian labour market. For them, the social contribution tax and contribution exemption of their income will continue in 2024. It is important to note here that the Left has decided, during socialist governance, on a number of measures that have been particularly devastating to our elderly countrymen. In 2009, the 13th month pension was taken from 2.2 million people; in parallel, the real value of pensions was reduced, during the Gyurcsány government, by 8 percent in 2008, and in 2009 by another 6.4 percent during the Bajnai government. Here it is worth confronting the civil government's measures on pensioners, the agreement that we have made with them, that we are not reducing real value, that we are not taking away 13 months' pensions, but that we are reimbursing 13 months' pensions, and that we are preserving the purchasing value of pensions in real terms, so that pensioners in difficult times of war can buy the same or even more money as they could in the pre-war inflation period. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Don't accept criticism from people you'd never turn to for advice. Morgan Freeman Oscar-winning actor said that, he's very right about that. And if we consider the actor's advice, this is also true of the Hungarian Parliament. Recall, ladies and gentlemen, how many times the opposition has attacked us on measures that, by the way, served the interests of the Hungarian people, Hungarian society. I was sitting in these benches, honourable Members, when Viktor Orbán promised in 2010 that we would create a million new jobs; the left laughed at us. Then, when we said that we would restore the 13th month pension, they acted in the same way; they did not vote for any measure, which was a crucial issue for the Hungarian people. And now no measure has been voted out of the package of measures to break inflation; and they are constantly debating what the government is once again saying, and in which Fidesz representatives are 100% in favour of reducing inflation to one digit by the end of the year in Hungary. I believe that, and from what we've seen so far, we will be able to achieve this in a realistic way, and as the Ministry of Finance planned it in the next year's budget, next year we will be able to calculate a much milder average inflation rate of 6 percent per year. We have preserved the viability of the economy, and based on previous successes, the Hungarian economy can expand again this year, which is not a natural thing in Europe, since let's look at the German economy, which has already gone into recession. Economic growth will continue to be sustainable with us, and in 2024 the government will expect 4 percent further economic growth, which we will need in order to achieve additional revenues to sustain further development. As Minister for Finance Mihály Varga said in his expo, in 2024 we are looking at a deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 2.9 per cent and a further reduction in government debt, which will decrease to 66.7 per cent. That's not natural either, ladies and gentlemen. If you look at the EU Member States, look at the budgets of the EU Member States, which are otherwise in a better economic situation than we are, you can see that they are not the primary aspect of reducing stability and budget deficits; our level of 66.7 percent will be 10 percent lower than the EU average next year. So I am very pleased that the government is also taking budgetary stability seriously in difficult times; this is also a very serious message for the market. This also means that public debt can be financed in a stable way, and that the working capital flowing into Hungary is more than 28 percent this year, with which we will be the first among the EU Member States. This is extremely important, because the only way to preserve jobs is to maintain economic growth if investments continue to grow here. In 2010, the Hungarian budget was able to spend only HUF 2600 billion on public sector workers' wages; compared to this, it will exceed HUF 6460 billion in 2024. This is also very important, because people who work as civil servants and civil servants must be valued and thus serve Hungarian society. In 2024, as I mentioned, the rate of price increases will be much lower, which will also give the budget more room for manoeuvre. Ladies and Gentlemen, Despite the adverse circumstances, Hungary has repeatedly demonstrated its strong resilience thanks to the conscious construction of the 2010s. The 7,2% growth in 2021 was followed by a 4.6 percent increase in 2022 and, as I said, an 1.1 percent increase is expected this year. The decade 2020-2030 is a time of danger, uncertainty and war. At the same time, our country is under increasing migratory and inflationary pressures. Hungary has been on its own to protect the borders, yet our main goal remains to keep Hungary out of the war; not to let the Hungarian people pay the price of the war; and to keep our borders safe, as has been the case so far. Dear House, We are all aware of the difficulties and unpredictable nature of 2022. We can already see, coming to the end of this year, that this year is also an amazing challenge for us. The next year, 2024 will be a year of stability, defence and security. With all this in mind, we will need to seize all the means to maintain this stability, to preserve Hungarian jobs, to preserve the purchasing power of Hungarian wages and salaries, and to maintain the security of pensioners by maintaining the purchasing value of pensions. The trust, honourable fellow Members, which formed between the Hungarian voters and the Hungarian government, has resulted in the fact that, in any difficult time, we had to make any decision, the European Commission or the European Parliament attacked Hungary in any matter, we could always stand up to the interests of Hungary, and this budget of 2024 continues to regard this as an aspect of itself, it sets this goal for itself, and I think, fellow Members, that with these numbers we will be able to achieve these goals in 2024. Unity, strength, and hard work will be needed in the coming days. If we all work together, if we all add our own knowledge, our own abilities, then I think we can end a successful year in 2024. This is what I wish the Hungarian Government to do, as in previous years, with the same precision, with the same consistency, and we, fellow Members, support it. In fact, I would also ask the representatives of the other political groups of Parliament to support the budget for 2024, because if, at some point, the implementation of next year's budget will require even more cooperation and cooperation, we will have to think together. Let us not consider individual successes, not individual interests, but the interests of Hungary, the interests of the Hungarian people! Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-13-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, another lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-13-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable House! Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary of State! Mr. Speaker! Like the previous year, the government has presented the budget, which it called the defence budget in the spring, in order to give people and economic operators as much time as possible to prepare for next year's changes. I think that in such wartime, uncertain times, early planning gives more stability and planning; it has more advantages than disadvantages, and this country is definitely important to think about. It is not the first time we have said these words about the budget, since it is not the first time we have been here, and it is not the first time we have heard the ministerial exposition. Each time we said these sentences, we heard strange sounds and we saw strange smiles from those who were going against us. [[13.30]] I think that every closing account that we have listened to here since 2010 in the budgetary accounts has never once been heard saying that someone said that we were sorry, we were wrong, that the budget was really respectable, that the numbers that were in it could be done. Ladies and gentlemen, As a far-reaching consequence of the war in our neighbourhood and the sanctions imposed on Russia, the EU economy began to slow down in the second half of last year. World market energy prices have skyrocketed, inflation has reached decades of peaks in the Member States, and energy security in the European area has also become questionable. Families have faced increasing cost of living, business operations have increased significantly, causing a competitive disadvantage for the European Union. In addition, the pressure and pressure on the European State Casinos has been increasing. As a result of the energy import demand of the Hungarian economy, our country was particularly affected by the energy crisis that peaked last summer. The multiplied import prices of natural gas and electricity caused the deterioration of the balance of payments, and the forint also weakened significantly against the main currencies last year. The spill-over of food and raw material prices, along with the historical drought, has also caused significant food inflation in Hungary as a result of the failed Brussels sanctions policy. In these economic circumstances, I believe that the aim of protecting the results of recent years is a serious commitment. The government intends to maintain the reduction of the rent, the system of family support, and to protect Hungarian jobs, and also to increase Hungary's defence capacity. In order to ensure that these commitments continue to be met next year, the Government will maintain the Retirement Fund, which will ensure the protection of families and businesses from rising energy prices. The Fund also provides compensation for central budgetary bodies and local governments, support for church and civil institutions, as well as for State-owned companies. The main contribution to the fund is the payments made by sectors, large companies, where market developments have led to significant extra profit. This is complemented by support from the central budget. Thus, the Rezségvédelmi Fund helps families, state and local government bodies, to pay the bills of companies by about HUF 1,400 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, Looking ahead: the 1.5 percent economic growth forecast for 2023 could be followed by up to 4 percent growth next year. Taking into account external factors, the normalisation of world commodity and energy prices, the adaptability of economies are expected to reduce global inflationary pressures and boost world trade. In 2024 it could be much lower and the pace of the Hungarian price increase will also be much lower, which will allow real wages to increase significantly again. Highly stabilised employment will reach new peaks next year. Where are we from with 12 percent unemployment? ! Where are we now that we have to fear that we cannot provide work for people living in Hungary? ! We are now at the point that there are rather few workers present in Hungary, and therefore the economy must seek new opportunities to resolve this situation. Of course, in this solution, we think primarily about re-training and the creation of new jobs. The uncertainty about energy supply is also expected to ease in the coming years, which will, of course, require a more moderate increase in consumer prices and a steady recovery in household consumption. Of course, we also need to put the Hungarian networks in a position where our energy security is not reduced, but rather strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2024 the country's financial margin will be significantly improved if and if Hungary receives the EU budgetary resources due to it. I would like to note that these resources are not coming to Hungary as a donation, and we all have our work in creating EU funds. It is calculated that nearly 80 percent of the EU funds, which we expect, are produced by the Hungarian taxpayers and the Hungarian economy, so this is not a donation, but a contribution to us. Whatever political pressure Hungary is under, we trust that EU funds for Hungary will actually arrive in Hungary after a long political delay. Therefore, cohesion policy at our disposal during the 2021-2027 programming period [[Sic!]] EU funds will amount to HUF 8100 billion for the economy. Under the new accounting rules, the rate of EU co-financing will decrease for developed regions compared to the previous programming period, reaching 40 per cent instead of 50 per cent. Another question is the question of the recovery fund, which exceeds HUF 2100 billion. This is a resource to which all EU Member States have committed themselves. So this is a loan that everyone is going to pay together, so let us send a message to the decision-makers that it is again a source of income that is not due to us, but is necessary and committed to us. Implementation of the CAP strategy plan for support for the common agricultural policy, covering the years 2023-2027, including direct area payments outside the budget, will continue to run in parallel with the rural development programme 2014-2020. The amount of national co-financing in the Union is equal to 80 per cent. As a result, in the new programming period, nearly three times as much funding could be allocated as previously. The five-year EU framework of the overall CAP strategy plan amounts to HUF 3255 billion, of which about HUF 630 billion will be spent on rural development and will be complemented by a co-financing of HUF 2520 billion. Thus, a total of HUF 5775 billion is available for the sector in five years. Ladies and gentlemen, As in the previous year, it is important to note with regard to the budget plan that it will continue to be a budget for the next year, so the cost of public services, including health and public education, will continue to be financed by the State from its operating revenue. In addition, the zero-percent operating deficit should continue to be achieved in such a way that development resources are secured. The structure of the budget is characterised by a clear breakdown, so that Annex 1 to the bill contains state expenditure and revenue in a transparent manner, while fully ensuring that the budget is enforceable and verifiable. [[13.40]] Some figures here at the end. It is important, it has been said several times, but it must be underlined that the total national product can grow by around 4 percent next year, and inflation is expected to be achieved by around 6 percent. The budget deficit in these war periods and despite economic difficulties in recent years may fall from 73.3 percent to 69 percent and then 66.7 percent at the end of next year; next year is characterised by a deficit target of less than 3 percent so that we can meet the Maastricht criteria. Unemployment is expected to rise by around 4 percent, real wages, as has been said many times before, and it is also very important to say that, as in recent years, this budget includes the flexibility to respectability that we have forgotten the interim amendments since 2010. It has been said several times, even at a committee meeting, but it will obviously still be heard here, because not only will we be speaking, but the opposition will also be speaking about the budget, which, for example, pointed out in relation to the budget for 2023 that it was amended by regulation. My honourable fellow Members, it is only true that the government prepared the preliminary procedure, and then, as is customary, it submitted it to Parliament, and we were able to vote on it in March. It is certainly important to note that it was not an amendment to the main figures, but an amendment to the changes that occurred during the year. Where are we from the submission of the last budget for 2009, where we submitted a budget containing superbrutto, tax increases, 13th month allowances, and which then had a budget deficit planned to minus 4.3 percent and then completed by 9 percent? ! It is important to note, and I would also like to thank you for the careful planning and preparatory work carried out by the staff of the Ministry, and I would also like to thank the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council for their opinion. The State Audit Office said that it considered it sound and feasible; despite the uncertainties, the Fiscal Council also thought that this budget could be respected and achieved. Dear fellow Members, I wish for you to have a discussion on the actual figures of the budget within the next twenty-hour time frame, and then the majority of Parliament will adopt the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-13-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-55	Thank you very much. The relations between Parliament and the parliamentary groups with the government are most typically shown by two votes, two decisions: one by the relation of certain groups of Parliament to the budget and the other by the relation of each parliamentary group to the nomination and election of the Prime Minister. One of the most fundamental features of parliamentary democracy in this regard is that opposition parties do not vote in favour of the budget, government parties vote in favour; opposition parties do not vote in favour of the proposal for the Prime Minister, and government parties vote in favour. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: They didn't vote for you either!]] Why is that? In fact, because the budget is not a series of numbers and amounts, which, by the way, is indeed difficult for an average person to describe, but a reflection of the budget that the government and the majority in Parliament have in numbers. When we vote on the budget, we actually vote that we agree with the policy that the government is pursuing, and this policy is supported by this budget forints, money, subsidies and the rest of it. The other aspect is obviously more understandable, since by choosing the Prime Minister, we choose the number one representative of this policy. This would actually show that the debate on the budget and then the decision must be taken more seriously than almost anything else. I would add that this parliamentary session is not showing this kind of seriousness right now. But in fact, I do not want to reprimand any of my fellow Members, because there is a very obvious weirdness in this situation, and it is true that this Parliament has lost its legislative character, as can be said, by reference to other comparisons. In fact, this Parliament has become a public debate club during the period of regulation governance, and it has now been going on forever. Almost no matter what this Parliament will accept in a good two weeks, even a day later, the entire budget can be rewritten for the presentation of the Prime Minister. And if so, I am right when I say that we are not making a law here in the classic sense of the word, which binds the hand of the government, because we are the legislators, but we are commenting on what the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister thinks today, but this is our opinion, which in no way affects not only what he will think in two weeks' time, but what he will do. Therefore, I think that our ambitions should be adapted to this basic situation. In fact, when I am going to give an opinion on the draft budget on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, I am trying to answer the question that we agree with the policy that this government is pursuing, and that we see it as a sign of conceptual changes in this budget that would bring Hungary closer to the world that we consider desirable. It is therefore worth considering some important questions after we have asked ourselves. I do not know that the pro-government representatives agree that today the richest 1 percent in Hungary owns one third of the total national wealth. I don't know if you agree that all this has happened in the last eight to nine years, predominantly after 2014; that this has to do with G-day and the subsequent reorganization, I don't know, but, no doubt, the years seem to coincide. Do we want a country where a third of the country's wealth is concentrated in the hands of few people who are also in Europe? is 1 per cent round. That's not what we want! So when we face what you do and you do, we are faced, among other things, because we like it more, let's say, Finland, where the same figure is roughly half the Hungarian, is slightly more than 18 percent; of course, the European average is much lower than that. Do you agree that within all national incomes, the income that those who work in labour or receive, or who earn capital income or retain corporate profits, has been reduced over the last ten years? [[13.50]] The distribution of income between companies and people has changed over the last ten years so that people have been given less and less, and companies have been given more and more. [[Crying from the pro-government benches, among them: No!]] Is that the country we want? ! Do we want a country where people have about six or eight times more roles in public burdens than companies? Do we want it or don't we want it? We don't want to! [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] In fact, that is why we are against you; not because the opposition must be opposed, but because we believe that you are taking us to an inhumane, unlivable, bad world. Meanwhile, the government colleagues here say it's not true, it's not true. Then argue for a moment after making the following statement with the President of the Central Bank [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] who, based on his report in recent days, claims that according to the inflation of the last year, the value of private wealth in Hungary has decreased by 10 percent, to exactly HUF 14 000 billion. [[A voice from the benches of DK: Yes!]] Today, the value of people's private wealth is 14,000 billion forints lower than a year ago, these are predominantly housing, houses, small cars, small savings. Why don't you talk about the disappearance of 14,000 billion forints from people's pockets as a result of your policy? ! You did it, that's all. [[Uproar, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks, including: Of course, Feri! Sure.]] Are we supposed to be welcoming this? I don't think we should be welcoming this. Of course, you can say: Ah, but war inflation, oh, but sanctioned inflation! Really? How in God's name [[Intercoms in KDNP benches: Come on!]] That in Ukraine, where there really is war, inflation is lower than ours? ! Tell me! In Hungary there is not war inflation, but inflation in Orbán, the result of the inertia, the misguided economic policy behind which you were standing. Now they're obviously ashamed of themselves, and I understand that, and there's a reason for that. Orbán's policy and economic policy are causing people's wealth to fall by more than 40 percent, that while Romania announces today that 10 percent of inflation is still above 20 percent! If it were sanctioned inflation, how the heck is it that inflation in Belgium, in the country of the capital of sanctions, is one-digit? Or is it just us? Are we being chased by misfortune? No, please, in fact, you are the ones who are chasing the vast majority of the country that wants to live in a better and decent way. This is your responsibility, not anyone else's. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches. Defiance and interrogations in the benches of the governing parties, among them: Bravo!]] Do you agree that your government has created the highest general sales tax in Europe in Hungary? Who are affected by these measures? Who suffer the highest inflation? Who are affected by the highest turnover tax? Well, obviously, in both cases, those who spend most of their income on consumption, not on savings, not on investment. They're obviously the lower incomes. Both inflation and general sales tax could in principle be the less-than-better way of expressing their extra tax in a different way. You're doing this, please. Obviously, anyone who disagrees has nothing to say but that I cannot agree with this budget. We agree that we use the same tax rate when someone pays 200-300 thousand forints and the same when someone pays millions of forints. Yes or no? Of course, this is also a philosophical debate, of course. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right.]] But I think we are doing the right thing when we say, as the German Constitution says: greater wealth, greater income obliges us to do more; of course it requires more effort from you. And we think there's only one decent statement: pay the billionaires! That's the position we're taking to make the billionaires pay. Pay because, yes, with more wealth, with higher income, there is more responsibility, we think, because that is the right statement. It is possible to talk about how much national income increases, but at the end of the day, it is more important for this vast majority how this income is distributed. I'll give you a simple example that, knowing your infinitely simple communication, you may reach the understanding ears and perhaps even touch the hearts. The average income of Lőrinc Mészáros last year and the income of my invalid retirement sister is a very high number. I think it would satisfy my sister. But when you look at this thing separately, you see that one's going to be amazingly good and the other is barely living. It is more important than the increase in national income for the vast majority of the country's population how we distribute it, and you have distributed it to 1 percent of the country's wealth 33 percent. You guys wouldn't do that. We would think that when we talk about a nation, the nation is not only a historical, cultural and linguistic community, but also a social community, that is, that we have work to do to look after each other. In his exposé and the second lead speaker of Fidesz, Minister for Finance, he also gave a positive assessment of the reliability and predictability of the budget planning of the last ten years. I'm not going to go into the details of the amazing differences between the closing accounts and the budget law, but I have to make one comment. It is not the result of reliable budget planning and the result of the election that you suddenly abandon 270 public-funded investments with one pen stroke, overnight: road, school, sports facilities, hospital renovation, big city, from Nagykanizsa to Miskolc and small settlements. They didn't withdraw from an investment from 270! At the same time, I will no longer talk about buying a company for more than HUF 200 billion, behind which people who are very close to the Prime Minister and who have only one purpose: the construction of the city centre of a Budapest district. Suddenly, Budapest became important to the Prime Minister; not because he loves Budapest recently, but because he loves the relative. But our relative is not worth 200 billion forints when they stop 270 investments. It's not reliable budget planning, it's a spree, it's what they call it. If I look at it from an election point of view, I think it's a nightmare. Let's look at a few examples of how we disagree. How can we agree with an education policy that denies freedom of education in this world? Yes, we are on the party that our children and grandchildren all form a separate world, that we must respond to them with sensitive education, that the school must be given back to children, parents, teachers, so that the school can be colorful, so that the municipalities can decide what kind of spiritual school they want, because the values that are followed by one or another are different. And, well, I don't know, you can see that during your ten-year regency, performance measurements in international life have improved or deteriorated Hungary's understanding of the text or the range of mathematical skills, and I'm not going any further. It's a lot worse, that's what it is. And what's even worse is that the proportion of children who are doing worse has increased dramatically. This country is falling! In 2010-11, 4.7 percent of our common income was spent on education now 3.9. [[14.00]] You have withdrawn nearly 1 percentage point of money from Hungarian education, which is HUF 800 billion for a budget of 80 000 billion. You did this! No one else, you guys! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We don't call you names!]] And if we look at the difference between last year's budget plan and this year's budget plan with an inflation rate of approximately 18%, then next year, in real terms, there will be 13 percent less basic and secondary education in Hungary. It's when they see the tension. 13 percent is about a month and a half of funding. You've taken a month and a half of your education and expect everything to happen properly. How can we agree with what you do in health care? We believe that in health care, after paying contributions to people, that is why they should have the same rights with guarantees, regardless of whether they are cleaning women in a remote village or factory directors in the capital. Have you managed to ensure that everyone has the same service based on the insurance relationship? Couldn't get a hold of him. You're the ones who beat the hell out of this effort was our ambition. Have you managed to achieve that Hungary does not have the worst rates and mortality rates for cancer patients in Europe? Did it work? Couldn't get a hold of him. Have you managed to make sure that the period in health at the age of 65 does not become Europe's second worst? Couldn't get a hold of him. [[In the notary seat, Dániel Z. Carpath will be replaced by Dávid Dócs. Attila Gelencsér takes his place as notary.]] How do you feel about the fact that, on average, the expected time of birth in Hungary has decreased by two years in the last two years, partly because, under your governance, Hungary has made the most of the deaths in Covid's world in proportion to the population? Under your guidance. As a result, the average age at birth today is two years less than, for example, five years ago. You did it! Let's agree with that and vote for your budget, which is the result? No, we're not gonna vote for it. You do not realize that in 2010 the share of GDP was 5.2 percent, and that is still the share of GDP. But I'll tell you worse: from this year to next, public spending on health is falling by 10 percent in real terms. Why didn't the Minister of Finance tell you that? That there'll be more nominally? Congratulations. With 20 percent inflation, to be honest, it's not a big deal. Yeah, we want the pension to go to insurance law. What we want to do is not to have the ugliness that, over ten years, the average pension level of about 75-77 percent should not fall to 55 percent compared to the average salary. Today, an average pensioner earns little more than half of what an ordinary worker does. You did this! Obviously, we don't agree with him. In fact, you are only willing to increase pensions by inflation, which means that when you retire, you will lose hope that you will get a little better. It won't get any better. It's over there, he doesn't share the country's success with his own life anymore. He doesn't share. You've taken that hope away from the pensioners. That's the problem. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You reduced pensions!]] You do not allow the pension system to be realistic, so that retirement is flexible for example. Of course, the result of this is that, compared to 2010, when we spent nearly 11 percent of our common income on pensions, we now spend only 7 percent of our income on pensions. Well, congratulations to you. Actually, you're a philanthropic, kind company. And when you talk, please, about family support, I have to make a comment. The proportion of family allowances reaching everyone equally fell from national income to fifths. To the fifth. I understand that you're going to get to families on a different line of tax incentives, but let us say again and again that we don't think it's okay for us to give the children of families with higher incomes much more state aid than the children of families with a heavier fate. Twice the branch pulls these kids. Parents already take less money home, and their government gives them less in proportion as family and child support. They are punished by life and punished by your government. Well, if I were you, I think I'd be most ashamed of myself, if I could. [[Nacha Lawrence: Oh, my God!]] So, in answer to the first question, did the policy behind this budget really support it? The Democratic Coalition has a clear opinion that it is not eligible. The second question is that this budget contains elements that would prove that your policy is changing in a meaningful way, and that it gives at least one and another of the problems I have previously raised a fair and positive answer. Is there, behind this budget, any large-scale, any ideas that make the country's life better, dreams? Are you going to build your country according to this budget? We don't think so. In fact, this budget is thoughtless, this budget is a budget for doing nothing; I do not see a real serious start to where this country is going. Actually, it's a tired government budget. We'll keep the record, said the minister, someone said that in the '80s. The objective was to preserve the acquis. Are you so proud of that? Well, if you're so proud of that, I can tell you that it's not enough for the majority of the country. In fact, this is the austerity budget for inflation in Orbán. Well, they can do that. The way I look at you, I don't really wonder. We will not vote in favour of the budget. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP. Lőrinc Nacsa: We welcome you to work again!]]
u2023-06-13-56	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Harghitai [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Head speaker for the KDNP Group. Congressman, please.
u2023-06-13-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Ex-Prime Minister Gyurcsány, You have long insisted on why the opposition does not vote for a budget anywhere in the world. We agree on that. We'd be embarrassed if he had other intentions. When you spoke, as a private person, you spoke by the man who, by the way, was one of the richest one percent, and from that point of view, you could say your own position. By the way, I think it's an achievement that you're part of this circle. You don't have to be ashamed, even if you're on a sneaking field. [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] In this envious position, but still, it's an achievement. [[Gergely Harvestó: Look around the faction, there's the sneaking track! Interrogation from the ranks of the governing parties: Ask for a word. The president's ringing the bell.]] The other thing is that we remember, Mr. Honourable former Prime Minister, that by managing you, either as Prime Minister or as a decisive member of the coalition at that time, the country was bankrupt. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What kind of bankruptcy? Gergely Arató: Szijjártó and Kósa almost bankrupted the country!]] Not in a war situation, as it is now, in which we have to make a budget, but at a time when there was a wealth of resources in the world economy. All the money in the world was available to the then governments to make a balanced and good fiscal policy. But this was achieved in Hungary at the height of 2008-2009 by failing, Prime Minister. [[Gergely Harvesto: We didn't go bankrupt! Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Keep quiet! The president's ringing the bell.]] This bankruptcy with clever maneuvers, thank God I'll add it to the IMF's money, then you've been saved. That trouble, that trouble... [[Gergely Harvesto: Is it better to do it with Chinese money? Nacsa Lőrinc: Says the man who destroyed the education! Towards Gergely Harvesto:]] He'll be able to speak. He'll be able to speak!
u2023-06-13-58	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány was also heard. Please do the same. Thank you.
u2023-06-13-59	Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány spoke passionately, as always; he gave us no reason to disturb what he had to say. [[14.10]] Try to bear with the fact that you're listening to me too, Honourable Congressman Arato. I know it's hard to sit through a budget debate as a shadow minister, but try this. So back to my main point: we do not expect, of course, to vote in favour of this budget, but there will be a point where, despite their lack of power here in Parliament, you have a significant influence on the budget, and there I would hope for some help from you as a pro-government Member, and this will be a discussion of the issue of European Union funds. You've been generously overstepping this because it's a sensitive subject for you, and you haven't told me about it. I listened, by the way, when Minister Varga said his exposé and talked about the planning and presentation of European Union funds in the budget, this was the most cheerful thing in the Democratic Coalition, and then they left, the positions of the two experts, the opinions of the State Audit Office or the Fiscal Council were no longer of interest to you. I think they have made very interesting, sensitive statements on the budget. I would like to deal with these in substance, because the opinion of the Fiscal Council is first known to us, Members, as the government's proposal has been tabled, since the Fiscal Council is already giving its opinion to the Government on the draft legislation that is being formed. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Many thanks were not included!]] , and this will be on the Budget Council website in due time. So we've had time to study this. Both control bodies are, by the way, in the same direction. This was explained by the President of the State Audit Office. The State Audit Office states that the Law on the budget for 2024 can be met with sound revenue estimates. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] I'm not sure we agree with each other, but for those who judge it as a professional, that's their position. The Fiscal Council says that the draft budget law of 2024 complies with the government debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law, and that the Stability Act 4 Paragraph 2a. These are the facts that are recorded by professionals. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] Let us look at the budgetary situation in which we had to create the budget for the year 24 in a global economic situation, which obviously affects our ability to move. The first thing I need to mention is war. When the war broke out, I think we all in this House thought that this would be a relatively short war, that the war parties would come to their senses. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Russians are more like it!]] And in a short time, the world will return to normal motion. Today we see that nothing will come of it, the war will continue, and I am sure that we will live in a war environment in 24th century. What we see is that the European Union's attitude to war will not change a bit compared to what it has already represented in relation to the war, because, in my view, it can be described briefly as having no independent will for the European Union, as a minister of the thought of the United States in connection with the war, that sanctions policy [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Amit Viktor Orbán voted! Nacsa Lőrinc: You weren't even here! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But I listened! There is a digital world! Nacsa Lawrence: Listen to me. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Digital World!]] of which we are leaders in the European Union [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] I think, Mrs Vadai, that it will continue. The European Union is also resourceful: to impose new sanctions on the situation which, by the way, greatly undermines the European Union's budgetary positions. So this negative environment that the war has created will not change in any way in relation to the year -24. And one of the sad side effects of this conflict is migration, and this migration is not just due to the neighboring war. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Half a million migrant workers!]] we are worth it, but migration throughout the world will continue to grow in relation to all the effects of war. This is the negative consequence, sooner or later it will have a budgetary impact on the Hungarian budget. We may not be able to live up to this in the budget for the year, but we need to calculate in some way. Here I am referring to the decision of the European Union as Minister of the Interior, in which we have returned to the inherently disapproval of the idea that migration would be distributed to the Member States of the European Union, who contradicted it, by means of budgetary means, will help the difficulties of the Member States where migration primarily occurs. I am sure, Prime Minister, that when this comes to the table in the European Parliament, your representatives there will approve of this idea, but we will never agree with that, and we will do everything we can to prevent the negative consequences of this in some way. Is there any change in your policy in the European Parliament? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Let's talk about the budget.]] I think that nothing is going to change, maybe it wouldn't make sense, because you put your political future on the line to show the world that this government is doing badly. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You don't have to. Kálmán Olga: See the world!]] 'Cause maybe it's you guys. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: The world sees it!]] He's gonna give you power. Accordingly, you will do everything in the future in the European Parliament, as you have done to prevent us from getting access to those resources. [[Kálmán Olga: We shouldn't steal so much!]] which we calculate in the budget for the year 24 of the year. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Shouldn't steal!]] I'm not expecting a turnaround. [[Kálmán Olga: It would be nice!]] But this is where I have to tell you, as a pro-government representative, that this is the only thing where you have an influence on the budget for the year 24. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What?]] You have an influence on our budget situation for the year. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There are four representatives of DK!]] If at least you wouldn't hurt me every day in Brussels, maybe you wouldn't say anything. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Help you steal?]] One step closer to that. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You don't have to steal, Congressman.]] so that we can obtain the EU funds we deserve. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] This does not require a budget vote [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You don't have to steal!]] the budget can be denied, but the country, the common country, is not denied [[Moray from the opposition benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh, no! The tears are rolling! Let's not do this.]] And don't hurt yourself if you can do this in Brussels, by the way, with the majority of you. If, as a pro-government representative, I am pessimist that your attitude towards obstructing European funding will not change, I am also saying that it logically follows that the planned resource that is in the budget for the year 24 may not be fulfilled. We have to face that. If you look at the EU budget line in the budget for the year 24, you will calculate that there will be 24,79,8 billion on the revenue side, this will flow in, and at the expenditure level, if everything is optimally achieved, we will make 3605 billion expenditures. I consider it a huge achievement that, in this very difficult budgetary situation, which is basically framed by the war, the Hungarian government is still seeking and is now able to generate developments beyond European resources. Obviously, partly by providing self-esteem, this goes without saying where it needs to be, but the government is also trying to secure the funds needed for certain investments. The real problem can obviously happen if the 2479 billion on the revenue side is not or only modestly achieved, and on the expenditure side we want to meet that HUF 3605 billion. Obviously, if we expect you to do what we have to do, then this is an item within the budget that requires the government to be vigilant. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Vigilance, comrades, there, on the other side!]] because this alone can upset the state of the domestic budget. I am sure that we cannot expect substantial support from you, but in the elections to the European Parliament, later in the parliamentary elections, Hungarian voters will wisely measure this situation and decide whether you are well-politicised. I think that even if they do not vote for a budget, we could work together not to harm Hungary. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] The text that says that you are only political with the government is not enough. [[14.20]] The government can't be harmed in Brussels without harming Hungarian budgetary positions. [[Laszlo Varju: You're hurting yourselves!]] And in this respect, do not harm Hungarian income owners, families, companies, and I could continue the line. I have already quoted a sentence from the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council about what they think about this budget. I would also like to mention the point of their investigation, and it follows that what we should not expect from these reports. From their point of view, it is an important question whether the estimates of the bill are justified on the basis of figures and can be achieved. Emphasising, in principle, certain risks to which both institutions have given a positive answer. The other thing they are looking at is that they are trying to identify risks and in their conclusions they come to the point that these risks are so great that they threaten the sovereign debt rule or the fulfilment of the deficit rule. These institutions bring many risks to two of them, and I have already mentioned one of them in relation to EU funds, but their conclusion is that, despite all the risks, the sovereign debt rule must and will be fulfilled. I could have said a thought at the beginning of my speech, but I'm bringing it up now, seeing my notes on how it makes sense now, at this time, we're dealing with a budget. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Finally! This is a very important question.]] This was also dealt with by Minister Varga, then also by the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Fiscal Council. We in the Committee on Budgets have also dealt with this issue. I, too, as a pro-government Member, had a position at an earlier stage that we should consider in this very unstable world that we should follow our practice and make a budget in the middle of the year, so long before the beginning of the budget year, or break with this practice. There was a dilemma in the government. I am well aware that the Secretary of State here has explained this dilemma at the Committee on Budgets. The government took the view, moreover, that the audit institutions had accepted that we would not be much smarter, that the situation in the global economy around the budget was so uncertain if we had delayed the period of budgeting. From your time of governance, there have been countless examples of how the budget adopted at the last minute could not be fulfilled in any way. You have produced a budget in general, and again I quote what Minister Varga said, that in your time the deficit was generally achieved by 6 percent, when it was much higher, but on average it was achieved by 6 percent, and, despite all the difficulties, we were able, on average, to calculate this world with a deficit of 2.9 percent from 2010, and to carry out our budgets. We also know, former Prime Minister, that, in your time, during the financial abundance of the world economy, the Hungarian public debt went from 57% to over 80%, and after 2010, we corrected it back to 65%. I also know, of course, that the Covid epidemic and the war have temporarily increased the public debt, but even in this sick period, the government is able to do so, and I am also referring to constitutional requirements for the debt squeeze rules to correct this backwards in the future. We could go back to that in numbers. But let's also talk about some of the issues that have also been affected by Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány's faction leader [[Nacsa Lárinc: He lied all over the place!]] But he obviously gave me some important questions with other contexts. I think it is a great thing in itself that we can talk about our achievements so far, which, of course, you doubt, because you don't see it as a result. But we see as a result what this government, this country, has been able to achieve since 2010 under the direction of this government. And in this very difficult war budget situation, we also have the goal of at all costs trying to preserve what we have achieved, and I am convinced that the electorate understands this. Everyone knows that we are not in an ideal budgetary situation, we are not creating the budget we want, but we are creating what we must create in response to the war. And here I could talk a long time about the Rehabilitation Fund and the Defense Fund, but I won't, because they were here in last year's budget. Thank God, we see the figures that we can cut back on our overhead expenses, because the energy prices on the world market are somewhat corrected. At the same time, we need to increase our defence spending, because we need to respond to the physical danger that Hungary and all the countries of Europe have, and this entails expenditure items. I'm bringing this up because we're not spending it on what we want, we're spending it on what we have to do. In this situation, we must devote much more resources to defence spending than we have so far. I think it is a result that the budget preserves all systems of family support, and all the benefits of this affect the family of Mrs Vadai, and that is correct. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You leave my family out of this, Congressman. I didn't mention your family either.]] Even if you talk about what I have to say on a regular basis. Family protection expenditure has a positive impact on all Hungarian families. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Don't protect my family, I'll protect it.]] I consider it a performance that we have the opportunity to maintain the level of employment achieved. Here again, Prime Minister Gyurcsány, I would like to quote a few sentences. During the abundance of the world economy, when you governed, Hungary had 2.8 million employees, some of whom were not taxpayers. They were employed, but they weren't taxpayers. We looked at the Czech Republic's figures with envy, where there were already 4.5 million employees at the time. Erik Bánki always recalls the Prime Minister's sentence when he first told us that we had to make a million more employees. [[László Varju: It was only on paper!]] You may have smiled, I didn't smile as a pro-government Member, but I did, too, and I said that what the Prime Minister said would be almost impossible to achieve. And, well, we've done it. Today, 4.5 million people are employed, and this government will continue to do everything in this budget to keep 4.5 million employees in the future. This was, by the way, a key issue in the context of your ruined economic policy to strengthen the whole Hungarian economic situation and budgetary situation. [[It's a constant murmur.]] I am also proud, and this is once again the performance of the government's economic policy, that we have been able to achieve that in the post-Covid world we are the first Europeans or the leading players in the investment rate. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We are the first in inflation! László Varju: And in terms of man's death!]] These figures have been performed in such a way that your work was involved, because you have made it difficult for us not to have access to European Union funds. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There is no EU source because you steal!]] This government has done so, and we will continue to do so now, if these figures are slightly reduced, but in terms of investment, we will remain at the forefront. We also have a very different view on pensions. I consider it a result that we can now guarantee the inflation-following pension to pensioners that we were able to take the 13th month pension that you took away from pensioners because of your failed economic policy and the bankruptcy of the state. [[László Varju: We paid 13th month's pension seven times and you only paid twice!]] We were able to rebuild that.
u2023-06-13-60	Fellow Members!
u2023-06-13-61	The DK congressmen are now pointing their fingers at us for seven years. If we weren't on the government, we wouldn't have a 13th month pension. In this war situation, there will be a 13th month pension next year. And we also calculate what you see is that we want to pay a pension premium again, because we believe that next year's growth could be more than 3.5 percent, and that it obliges us to pay a pension premium under the law that you have introduced, which we will be happy to do. [[14.30]] We've paid more than once, I think we've paid six pensions. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: But it is not built into retirement! They're useless!]] You have never once been able to implement such an institution. Public sector and financial prestige of the public sector. Well, that's where a government representative is most timidly speaking, even though I know what spectacular wage increases have been made in the context of the minimum wage and in all areas of the public sector compared to the world you left us at the end of your government. Compared to that, there are spectacular raises. But any salary increases are made by a budget [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] The people involved are obviously not going to be satisfied, and I'm going somewhere to give them the truth. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Fire people at the client gate! Zsolt Gréczy: 30 percent downsizing!]] Therefore, the career models that are calculated by paying for the year 24 budget must be fulfilled at all costs, and here we must also refer to teachers for a sentence. I, who once started from one of them, am not proud of what teachers are looking for now, but I see government intentions, and if we could get some help from you here, too. [[Intervention from DK's ranks: What purpose?! There's no intention!]] that the EU funds will be guaranteed by Brussels [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: 244 billion...! A year's pay for teachers! It can be done! Your kids go to private schools! Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] it's a very significant three-step, promised to the teachers. [[There are constant interruptions from DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell. György Balla: That's terrible! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's really a terrible problem. A statement from the ruling parties: Evening party at the Small Mansion! Kálmán Olga: Oh, how funny!]] a salary increase may be made and the resources required in the domestic budget are set out in the same budget. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Is the congressman invited?! They won't let anyone in there!]] I can give you a long list of my arguments, fellow Members, but I will end with... and one more thing: municipalities. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Is there no party on high street?!]] Local governments, we need to say two more sentences about them. Minister Varga, yes, he said that the law included HUF 1050 billion in funding. Most of the municipalities and I am obviously referring here to the small municipalities, my constituency makes a living with this money, but the municipal cake is much bigger than that. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: 4,000...!]] He also said the specific number, and in the local government sphere HUF 4186 billion is spent. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: We know!]] The government has, for a long time, exercised the practice of taking resources away from the more wealthy municipalities. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] And provide the little ones with resources. Obviously, we can't break up with this practice. The attempt made by the representatives of the Democratic Coalition a good week ago in the Committee on Budgets to avoid drawing so much resources from the capital, to withdraw funds from the richest government would obviously result in [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Not the richest! Not at all! Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not the richest!]] That we can give the little ones less resources. I think that the capital must be so in solidarity with the country-Hungary that it can handle these withdrawals with a rational metropolitan farming [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] The capital can still evolve. As a country representative, I never envied the spectacular development of Budapest, no matter who the mayor was. I'm proud of this capital. At the same time, however, I consider it natural that some of the enormous resources accumulated in the capital will be withdrawn. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What huge resources?! Look at the capital budget.]] not just from the capital, but from the richer and well-performing municipalities. [[Kálmán Olga: The Carmelite is getting more beautiful!]] The surplus of the business tax still creates room for movement there, but breaking up with this withdrawal practice would also put the municipalities in a difficult position. This is also an area where I have to say to the government that I am sure that the resources planned for the small town world, well, it must be a miracle to be sufficient, but I am pleased to note what the Minister said in his expoze that, because of the increased wages, local governments will be compensated for this year and next year, energy prices will be supported by local authorities this year and next year, and, overall, there will be about 500 billion resources available to municipalities. When I was preparing for my speech and looking at these materials, I saw the most problematic problem in the budget materials about the loss of the National Bank. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] The National Bank will have an incredible loss for understandable reasons and, in accordance with the National Bank Act, these funds will have to be reimbursed annually by the National Bank for a period of five years. The material submitted did not yet contain any reference to this, but it was comforting to hear what the Minister of Finance said in his expozee, because, of course, there were no full numbers here. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: We were here! We were here!]] The Prime Minister was here at the time, so Minister Varga said that during the debate on the budget, and therefore, during this period, the Parliament itself is returning to this problem with clear amendments. [[Kálmán Olga: Did this just come out?! Lot. Erzsébet Németh: From what is it taken?!]] and with this, I think that, in addition to the difficulty of European Union funds, [[Kálmán Olga: Sell a piano, a violin, a painting. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Bútor, Corvin chain!]] the other area with the highest risk [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] We have also discovered that there is a solution here in the budgetary debate to address the issue of the National Bank. I close my sentences, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, by saying that it is natural for me that you will not vote for a budget, either now or in the future, and that is in order, and we would not do it in reverse. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We will, only our own!]] But as a pro-government Member, I am asking you not to harm this country in the European Parliament. If they show restraint there [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Don't steal! You don't have to steal!]] They're gonna help us with that. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The EU's money, Viktor Orbán, is not coming because of one person!]] To get the country's money [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] which, by the way, have been planned for the budget during the operation of the budget. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's make a realistic calculation. That's all I'm asking for your support. I will be curious about the political, European Parliament events of the coming years, how they will be reflected in these issues. If you want to help us, the country [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not for you and the country.]] you are already late, but until the next elections to the European Parliament, you could present a good one, for which Hungary would be grateful to you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Löcsei, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group, who is speaking about the pulpit. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-06-13-63	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'd like to say it at the beginning. [[The representatives of DK leave the meeting room in conversation. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What you think of next year's budget, its draft, is the Momentum Movement. Following last year's elections, he recreated a regulation, and this year, a few weeks ago, in the light of the budget for 2023, it can be said that the support of the majority of Parliament's pro-government members was, in the past, only a bianco mandate for a fundamentally irresponsible cover story called a budget. In the traditional sense of the word, the central budget in Hungary is no longer available. Just as there is no real, accountable budget under regulation governance this year, there will be no future, no matter what the government will decide with a push of a button. Accordingly, we should also interpret the debate on the budget that has begun today. What does Momentum represent against this unorthodox, illiberal practice? It means that only after a meaningful economic, social dialogue, process, at the end of the summer, that is to say, in the light of the facts of the first semester, will a budget be submitted in the future. A responsiblely planned, sufficiently detailed, transparent budget is needed. Not last year, not this year, not next year. Therefore, the Momentum cannot take it sufficiently seriously, but it is no longer taken seriously by economic and market players. The Hungarian people live in villages, and they suffer in cities. Next year's budget is characterised by short-term power considerations. The future continues to exist. According to the Momentum, responsible planning, based on clear Community social policy goals, is needed, taking responsibility for future generations. In addition to the need for responsible planning, it is worth highlighting some priorities and areas of action. [[14.40]] First. The negative economic processes, the deterioration of the quality of life affecting the majority of Hungarians, must be stopped. This requires an early agreement on the rule of law between the institutions of the European Union and the Hungarian Government. Instead of empty words, lies Brussels, we expect actions from the government. Second. We also believe that there is a need to renegotiate the focus of EU development resources, with the involvement of economic, social and local government representatives. If it doesn't, we're gonna be terrorizing money spills like canopy walks over and over again. The third and most important issue on the agenda is the need for immediate dialogue in the areas of public education and higher education and a wage agreement for at least three years. This must also be said if the Moment is to see clearly that the government governs from power, does not want to engage with anyone, with any interest representatives. Finally, the crisis affecting the majority of Hungarian people and families must be highlighted. Dear Parliament, The Orbán government is still the main cause of the highest, 21.5 percent domestic inflation among EU Member States. In the last week, you've already issued victory reports on how good that is. Of course, we, as well as the Momentum Movement, as all Hungarians are affected, especially the less affluent families, are particularly pleased if we are finally slowly reaping, but inflation is decreasing. At the same time, it must be said that the government has not yet solved anything from the economic problems it has caused, and the situation is even more critical, especially if we take into account the significant decline in consumption, the decline in real wages and the extremely high, increasing interest expenditure. According to Viktor Orbán, Europe stands to the brink of war, and we are the only ones left out of it successfully. But despite this rhetorical lie, I say it four times again in our country, four times the inflation rate in the euro area countries. Let's add that food inflation is still 33.5 percent in Hungary, only 50 percent in the case of basic foods, and 53 percent in the case of the pensioner shopping basket. These are extremely sad facts when shopping. This is the Fidesz government's premium, the result of lying, irresponsible government. While we are witnessing incredible private wealth gains, where the system's favourites, relatives and friends bring home tens and a hundred billion extra profites, the vast majority of Hungarian households have already lived up to their reserves, or are living from salary to salary, pension to pension, in increasingly critical conditions. The livelihood crisis is already affecting not only the poorest, but also the growing and falling half of the imaginary middle class. More and more of our countrymen's safety is breaking, while the system's patrons are getting better and better, thank you very much. Hungarian inflation rose again long before the war, in the autumn of 2021, and within the European Union Hungarian inflation became a leader. There was no such increase anywhere and there was no such increase in the surrounding countries. At the same time, they are not simply smearing their political responsibility for the problems caused by their own government, but by scattering hundreds of billions of public funds and advertising them on Brussels. They overcommunate and lie about reality, instead of finally agreeing to draw on ten thousand billion EU funds in order to strengthen the Hungarian economy, to strengthen businesses and to improve our quality of life, rather than dishonoring the Union from the otherwise scarce billions of public money and praising themselves. Attila Chikán, a respected economist professor who was the first Minister of Economic Affairs of the Orbán government, recently said that for a long time we have not only been particularly ill in terms of social welfare indicators, the human sphere, including education and health, compared to the EU average, but also to neighbouring countries. Despite the fact that Hungary was the first of the former socialist countries in these indicators at the end of the nineties, at the beginning of the two thousand years, but today we fell behind them because of the government's many decades of loss of social policy values. Today, the government's loss of values is clearly the biggest loser, the victim of our public education system, the quality of our education, and what is less said is our higher education. There is a great deal of trouble in kindergartens, through primary secondary education to universities. The Moment clearly prioritises the issue of public education and its overall reform. Without our kindergarten educators, teachers, teachers, teachers, etc., there will be no quality education. Without quality education, relations, knowledge and value can not be passed on to new generations in Hungary in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Ladies and gentlemen! Your government did not plan for a fair wage increase in the public sector in the next year's budget, including covering the wage increase of teachers and academics, so in 2024 the real value of wages will fall further where wage increases could not have been postponed this year. There won't be a worthwhile wage increase, but instead there's employees' squandering, intimidation, and various revenge laws. Tell me, please, another country in the Union whose government does not pay its teachers and civil servants from its own budget resources, from its tax forints, but punishes them and tells them to be paid by the Union! The Hungarian government also hangs an axis with the Union, where and wherever it can, while holding its grip, and even brunches. You are obviously preparing to vote once again at the right moment, by pressing a button on your command; we will have nothing left but to confront you and your voters with reality and consequences. The government, in contrast to what it has promised and what it propagates, does leave the people, its own voters, households, entrepreneurs and local governments, and in a crisis of livelihoods, the best way to help is for the municipal authorities to judge the need and the justification for social benefits. For this purpose, however, the government does not provide additional resources or even further reduces the leeway of the municipalities, which in many places leads to a loss of assets or any other wrong decision. However, they could help, as the central budget has already received over a thousand billion in VAT and other extra-profit revenues as a result of extraordinary inflation, including a drastic increase in energy prices. If only half of the extra-profit income were returned to the municipalities, mainly by raising social normative ones, the most pressing social problems could already be solved; and the other half would have had a decent teacher's wage increase from the beginning of the year. Instead, the Orbán government leaves an increasing number of people in need on the side of the road. You will also hit settlements, cities, districts, with different techniques, with new resources next year, and then, in comfort, the person you consider worthy of it will be given sufficient loyalty and various funds. [[14.50]] Even the Fiscal Council describes in black and white that it considers several appropriations for local authorities to be risky. As in previous years, operating aid for municipalities will be reduced in real terms in 2024. The capital will be erected directly before the elections. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, You have clearly given up building a knowledge-based economy, encouraging high added value investments, producer capacities, leading companies in innovation. On the other hand, without account of the natural, geographical conditions of our country or the critical situation of its water utility network, it was decided whether or not the inhabitants of the area affected by investments would make a large power in our country. Unfortunately, the government's document, titled "20040" of the National Accumulator Strategy, did not include strategic environmental testing, nor even test data. On various items, you force the construction of newer and newer battery factories from hundreds of billions of public funds, where it is already known that they are bringing labour primarily from Asian countries. In the meantime, you have failed to assess the extra water demand and extra energy demand required to operate the significantly oversized battery plant capacity. They are pursuing an industrial policy that is specifically contrary to our country's capabilities, water and energy problems, as in the '50s. It's not irresponsible anymore. It's a sin. You can't be such an irresponsible sane decision maker by yourself. Government decision-makers negotiating on your behalf have obviously been somewhat convinced. Meanwhile, they do irreversibly damage to Hungarian soils, our natural landscape, our water supply. In addition, there is also a need to mention in particular the serious safety and health risks of the industry. What you are doing in a forced procession in the matter of a battery factory is endangering the quality of life, health and security of the next generations, as well as a very serious reduction in the scope and potentials of future generations. The responsible Member does not support this budget; he cannot vote for your irresponsible and particularly harmful industrial and economic policy, for its destruction of nature, for his insensitive social policy, for the destruction of public education, for the destruction of life chances for future generations. Of course, we will not vote for it either. What we need to do, however, is open dialogue with the victims of your system, including those who have been aware of this, but even more with those who are only now and then facing the consequences of your governance. The last two thoughts: as a Member of Parliament in Heves County, I would like to address some thoughts to the representatives of Heves County, because I believe that this budget does not mean a safe livelihood for us Heves County, it does not mean more teachers, more pediatricians, general doctors, it does not mean public works for our settlements. That is why I would like to ask them to finally take the side of the Heves County people and openly take the criticism of this draft budget. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-06-13-64	Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group, who will begin the series of speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2023-06-13-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What's ahead of us is not a budget. A budget is based on facts and well-founded realistic calculations. In this sense, the budget submitted by Fidesz in 2024 is a fiction. What the government has just put before us is just an object that looks like a budget, but in fact it is a confusion of fantasies, desires and unfounded assumptions, which does not even contain a trace of reality. This thing is, let's say, a better lack of writing, without knowing the facts, in the absence of an account in 2022, so that even the government itself doesn't know what's coming. Again, it's not a budget. [[György Balla: Again!]] With some picnic, I could say we'd get similar numbers even if Fidesz brought us a cup of coffee and now we're trying to predict it. [[György Balla: Oh, good.]] And I'm not the only one saying this, and I'm literally quoting the comments from the Budget Council on what the government calls next year's budget. The foreseeable difficulties in the macroeconomic conditions of planning may require redesign, which limits the budget's role as an economic compass. I will help you translate what this means: in the flowering language of the Budgetary Council, the budget numbers are uncertain, unfounded, and this text is not suitable for the role of a public budget. [[György Balla: That's not what you're saying.]] But let's be specific about the factors that make this text weightless. First of all, there are delays in the agreements with the European Commission, which are already damaging the Hungarian economy to a thousand billion-dollar scale. What makes you think that EU funding will come if you don't do anything about it? [[György Balla: What?]] Something called judicial reform is being carried out without Parliament debating the proposal, leaving a party soldier without case law at the head of the Curia, who appoints his wife in an important position, and always mixes the composition of the judicial judgment councils in such a way that they always judge Fidesz. [[György Balla: What?!]] Then there is government optimism about economic growth. Even this year, growth is well below the planned level. If the sentences of Mihály Varga can be taken seriously, the HUF 425 is expected for October this year. Meanwhile, the huge leap in government-planned VAT revenues suggests that the increase will not slow down at all as much as you promise. On the other hand, by increasing public debt, you are putting an increasing burden on people. After HUF 2500 billion this year, Hungarian taxpayers will have to pay over 3100 billion next year. The Fidesz government doesn't even count on these risks. Of course, we know that with regulation governance behind his back, the Fidesz government could write in the budget that from next year, one of Antal Rogán's inventions will provide free energy to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, The general justification of the draft states that if the actual budget deviates from the submitted version, for example because the billions demanded from the European Union do not arrive, the Fidesz government will take all measures in time to establish expenditure and revenue appropriations. In English, this means that if the budget fails, the Fidesz government already has its austerity measures. But what they are, they won't tell us yet. They also explained why, I quote:. The publication of these ideas at the same time as the budget proposal, according to the Minister of Finance, would be premature and would jeopardise the proper replacement of the effects contained therein. I will also translate this: the Fidesz government does not want the Hungarian people to know what restrictions will be, because then people would perhaps flee all their movable assets abroad. The Prime Minister believes that he can trick with numbers and words, but let us be clear, this fidesz secrecy is a scam for Hungarians. That is why Viktor Orbán needs regulation governance to patch up the constantly failing budget with new restrictions when the harsh reality comes to an end. [[15.00]] The MSZP therefore demands that the draft tax and budgetary law be withdrawn. It does not comply with constitutional or public finance laws, its revenues are not secured, its expenditure is unfounded, economic growth is lower, inflation is higher than the government expects. In summer and so unsubstantiatedly, it is not possible to prepare a budget, but not a family household's plans. The MSZP also demands that the government reach an agreement with the European Commission as soon as possible to give Hungary access to the funds that are due to us. Without the European Union's support, neither the revenue side of the budget nor the settlement of the losses of the Hungarian National Bank are guaranteed. Without the missing HUF 2800 billion, the budget will collapse, and Hungary will fall into the ravine, indebtedness, deprivation for employees, civil servants and those with small and medium-term pensions. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The MSZP also requires the Government to re-submit a new draft budget by 31 October to rebuild the credibility of investors, investors and, in particular, citizens, and to ensure efficient and transparent management of public funds, after adoption of tax laws. We want the structure of the budget to be built on a professional basis, adapting it to the key social and economic policy processes; we want to restore budget transparency and Parliament's powers in fiscal policy. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of a budget is always to redistribute some of the goods produced together to provide resources for the most important goals: education, health, and the safe livelihood of people. For this reason, the Hungarian Socialist Party also initiates a new fiscal policy and a restructuring of the expenditure side in order to ensure the safe livelihood of the people. We left-wingers believe that Hungary has a future, it can evolve if the state budget ensures that health, prevention and healing will be available to all, not only to the rich; there is a future if all children and young people can acquire modern knowledge, and the state will give them a chance to do so. The MSZP therefore proposes that Parliament should set up a security budget: raising public expenditure to the EU average level. This means spending 7 per cent of GDP on health, 18 per cent on social assistance and 6 to 6.5 per cent on education in the upper third of the Member States. We propose reducing expenditure on economic functions, while increasing the cost of employment policy. According to the Hungarian Socialist Party, Hungary's prosperity depends on the fact that welfare expenditure serves those with low and average incomes and not only those with high incomes. This calls for new family and housing support. We recommend maintaining a high level of support for childbearing, but striving to give more help to those who need more that all children have the same chance of starting in life. The MSZP therefore initiates a doubling of the amount of the family allowance and the aid for the rights of the subject, which has not been increased for more than ten years, and everyone should be able to get to the maximum amount of the tax relief. Ladies and gentlemen, An immediate correction is also needed for pensioners. The MSZP therefore initiates, within the framework of the security budget, that from 2024 the total old-age pension minimum shall be at least 70 per cent of the current net minimum wage. The value of pensions must be ensured and their purchasing power preserved. We find it amazing that pensioners are currently lending to the state, because the government is raising pensions at the beginning of the year on the basis of underplanned inflation and the difference is given only at the end of the year. In English: Fidesz government uses the money of pensioners for free for a year. In order to eliminate this shameful practice, we are initiating the pension increase from 2024 onwards not to be based on government inflation, but to raise pensions on the basis of the facts of the period between August 2022 and August 23. A five-year differentiated pension catch-up programme should be launched. This is why we are initiating to introduce a mixed indexation of the annual pension increase, which also takes into account the increase in net earnings, in addition to inflation with the pensioner consumer basket. In order to reduce unjustified pension differences, we are initiating the same amount of 13 months' benefits for all pensioners corresponding to the average pension. The 13th-month pension paid as a social benefit reduces the general backwardness of pensions compared to wages, and if the amount is the same, it would provide substantial assistance to the elderly receiving low pensions and would also hinder ever-increasing polarisation. This solution would not entail additional expenditure. And we recommend the restoration of the pension contribution ceiling for income above HUF 1 million. This part of the income would not result in a pension and would also reduce the gap between old and new pensions today. Ladies and gentlemen, Tax rules must be applied, taxes on consumption reduced and income tax made fair. MSZP initiates the introduction of a reduced VAT rate of 5% for all foods so that those who are unable to do so today also have access to healthy food. In order to make the amount of energy price explosion bearable, 5 per cent of the VAT should be on electricity supply, fixed-gas supply, fixed-gas supply of LPG, firewood, briquettes, coke and bottled LPG gas, as is the case with district heating, although if I have seen it correctly, they want to eliminate the official price for LPG on Friday. Remove the retail special taxes, which cause an excess inflation rate of 5-8 percent. In the context of fair taxation of income, the MSZP initiates tax credits to exempt the minimum wage again. The smallest income should not be taxed, it should not be taken away from the minimum. Under the current 15% tax credit, those who earn between the minimum wage at all times and the average of all salaries in the previous year, i.e. the median wage, are taxed. This would be a fair tax system that would give everyone predictable financial security. Moreover, the MSZP initiates a progressive higher tax on capital income than on labour incomes. The MSZP proposes a radical reform of the municipal budget system for the safety of municipalities. We propose that the motor vehicle tax be entirely municipal revenue. By 20% of the excise duty collected on fuels, we also propose to support local authorities, among them we recommend to distribute it in proportion to the road network they manage, on condition that this source can only be used for roads. We also recommend that the revenue of municipalities should be 20% of the personal income tax generated in their administrative territory. The reason for this is obvious, since the tasks to be performed everywhere are proportional to the number of souls. As part of the security budget, the MSZP initiates the local business tax to be the local government's own revenue from 2024. In this respect, special industrial zones should be abolished. According to MSZP, it is unfair that the largest companies in Hungary virtually do not pay profit taxes. Similarly, it is unsustainable that multinational companies benefit from domestic-owned small and medium-sized enterprises. This can't go on! Therefore, within the framework of the security budget, we are proposing a tax and support system that allows small and medium-sized enterprises to develop technology and cover the higher minimum wage, improve competitiveness and protect the environment. Moreover, the MSZP initiates a 9 per cent corporate tax for small businesses, while the multinationals tax a single 15 per cent. Thousands of billions leave Hungary every year with minimal taxation. And last but not least, we must say that the most important player in the Hungarian economy is the working man. However, recognition of this should not stop only at the level of words. Since the profits of businesses and companies are largely made by working people, it is only fair that they too share in the material success achieved. [[15.10]] For this reason, the MSZP initiates, within the framework of the security budget, that 3 percent of corporate tax will not be included in the budget from next year, but that businesses will pay their current employees the same amount as profit participations. Ladies and gentlemen, These are the specific proposals of the MSZP. You've heard that we want to help working people and families. What I've just read is all concrete initiatives, we just have to vote for them, the decision is in your hands. We say: safety instead of decay! This is the MSZP's offer for the citizens of Hungary. This is our chance to create a security budget for our common future, Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-13-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Welcome, fellow Members. Mr Zoltán Vajda will continue with the keynote speech of the MSZP Group. We'll wait for him to come up here on the platform. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-13-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Fidesz. You're gonna have to take back this piece of shit right in front of us. This paper is called a budget, but it has nothing to do with a real budget. A real budget requires expertise, knowledge. However, this paper shows me exactly why you don't want people with degrees. You don't even need it to make a paper like this, because how can you take it seriously when it has nothing to do with reality! Like, the page count, maybe it's right. Ladies and gentlemen, Tell me the smart man is learning at a different cost. You, the Fidesz, but you don't, either, because it's enough to see what kind of budget you've been entertaining us with this time of year, what plans you've presented to us here a year ago. More than 4% of GDP growth was expected. The reality is that Hungary has been in a technical recession for almost a year. They were expecting a 5% inflation rate, I'll say it again. They were expecting a 5% inflation rate. This was achieved at least three times beyond what we may no longer call a statistical margin of error, a record by far absolute European Union record. Such a useless budget has been accepted by the supposedly respected House. And how did it end? Well, last December it was amended by decree, submitted to Parliament in February this year, and we were able to vote on it at the end of March, and entered into force on the day of fools. That's as much as a budget can go. And what lesson did they learn? Nothing! They started over again in May. Ladies and gentlemen, This budget proposal before us has become so weak again that it would be better for the country to withdraw it. Believe me, it's not a good idea to plan a budget like a lottery, which is to say numbers, and our guess will work. Is this what you expect the market to calm down and see their supposed predictable economic policy? Is that really what you're looking for when new special taxes and other tax increases are introduced by decree at night from one moment to the next? Or when the individual appropriations will be amended a hundred times, so that the final result has nothing to do with the version adopted by Parliament? Or when your Minister for Economic Development tells us that we don't even need EU money, will we also benefit from working capital? Ladies and gentlemen, The reality is that the economic risk the Orbán government poses is increasingly expensive to finance. This expensive funding means that every Hungarian person has to pay about HUF 150,000 more a year to finance the Hungarian government debt because of the Orbán risk. Once again, every Hungarian has an extra charge of approximately 150 thousand forints per year. It's real! As the reality is that the Orbán government is the obstacle to EU funds finally arriving in the Hungarian economy, you are the obstacle! Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop here for a moment. When the Minister for Economic Development publicly ponders that we are well without EU catch-up money, or other Fidesz politicians talk about the fact that there is life outside the EU, then I get the chill on my back. These are dangerous speeches and dangerous thoughts, ideas that are not in the interest of my beloved country, not Hungary, because the debate on the rule of law with the European Commission is not only about money, but also about common values. The fact that democratic rules prevail, the rule of law prevails, it succeeds in curbing corruption or not, because that centralized theft is still organised in a small village in Fidesz County with the active involvement of Fidesz leadership. Because if the answer to these questions is yes, Hungary will continue to have a chance to catch up with the more developed Western countries. And if it's not the answer, it's a historical sin, which you will be responsible for, and you will be responsible for, the terrible, tragic consequences. Dear fellow Members, As strange as it may seem, these issues are linked, they have a very close relationship with the subject to be discussed today, because if there is no agreement, if the Hungarian Government continues to refuse to take meaningful steps to restore the rule of law and reduce the centralised theft, then there will be no EU funds. If EU funds do not come, it will damage the Hungarian economy and every Hungarian family in it. Dear Colleagues, I believe that it is in Hungary's interest in this situation, on the one hand, to access EU funds to help the country catch up and develop without loss, and, on the other hand, it is also in our interest that the EU enforces the democratisation of the legal order and the reduction of the theft. Since the Orbán government prefers to make a sign of equality between itself and the country, note that the fact that we have come here is a disgrace and responsibility of the Fidesz government. 13 years of theft of the Fidesz system, democratic institutions, brakes and balances [[Sic!]] The systematic breakdown of its system, the domination of public media and the acquisition of total media, and the occupation of once independent institutions, led the European Parliament to consider Hungary to be no longer a democracy, but to quote them, the hybrid regime of electoral authoritarianism, which includes the former European party family of Fidesz. This is what you have made my country! In fact, today they do not want the Orbán government to be the President-in-Office of the Union. The transparency of legislation and the use of public funds, the reduction of corruption, the greater protection of EU budgetary interests, the creation of media freedom and the start of the proper functioning of formal institutions of the rule of law would all be an important element of Hungary's return to European law. The most important thing is to remove the government's influence on justice. Dear fellow Members, Dear Colleagues, After this little detour, let us look at what the European Commission has asked the government to do with the budget. On the one hand, how to get the special taxes out at the end of this year, because they are paid by the Hungarian people eventually, because through the prices, companies collect them from the families anyway. The EU has also proposed to forget this summer budget because no one can take it seriously, lottery tips cannot be evaluated professionally. And what was their response to these two requests from the EU? Well, on the one hand, special taxes have been extended, and on the other hand, some levels have been raised, so that prices and inflation continue to increase. On the other request, their response is quite obvious when we discuss this budget this week. I can't tell you how stupid this is. What is happening is that the government made Parliament accept something, which is called a budget, early, seven to eight months before the reference year. By the time it comes into force, however, it will be clear that there is essentially no correlation between reality and the regulatory budget, apart from their names. This is particularly true in the years affected by the crisis. The lack of planning on the basis of the summer budget is further enhanced by regulation legislation, which has become one of the new elements of the regulation budget. [[15.20]] This budget for the regulation is created by the government in the context of an emergency, i.e. strict rules on budgetary legislation and parliamentary control instruments do not apply. This type of regulation also gives the government the opportunity to reshape the budget from one day to the next. This budget, this fictitious budget, undermines the confidence in the Hungarian economic system, and you also adopt laws related to the tax system and even certain tax types in a similar way. In this respect, it is also necessary to draw attention to another problem, because the Fundamental Law also contains a very strong restriction on budgetary law. Because, as regards the powers of the Constitutional Court, the Fundamental Law states that such a law may be subject to a more restrictive measure than is permitted, simply because there is no remedy available. Thus, the Government may, by means of a regulation, adopt government regulations on budgetary or tax matters which completely rewrite the country's budget, restrict fundamental rights in their essential content, without a moment between publication and entry into force. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the risks ahead of the budget for next year are therefore huge. The real problem is that the government does not seek to reduce them. And if we add to this the words of Márton Nagy that the Hungarian economy does not even need those EU funds, it is better to forget them, Nosza, all this points in the direction that every move by the government is to prevent EU funds from arriving. You are working to ensure that EU funds do not come. [[Moors and interrogations from the ruling parties.]] And yes, I'm right! I'm right! I'm right, because it's not about taking out special taxes, it's about raising them in Parliament. Yeah, I'm right, because in June, and not in November, we're discussing the budget for the 24th. Yes, I am right, because instead of talking about 270 start-up EU projects, János Lázár has now published a list of 270 cancelled developments. And yes, I am right, because Márton Nagy is not talking about the fact that the working capital is super good, but we can't give up EU money, it's coming soon. Really! That's coming soon, isn't it? Because personally, I'm doing everything I can to get the EU funds here. Why are you, Fidesz, blocking the arrival of EU funds? Because if you continue to do this, in a few months we can sit here again over another budget proposal, but in that you will have to deal with an increasing crisis. I wish that wasn't the case. But to do so, the government must withdraw this fabric, fulfil the rule of law conditions, agree with the European Commission and make EU funds available. Then we can talk more easily about what a budget for the future of the country should look like to help the economy catch up, providing security for Hungarian people, civil society organisations and businesses alike. So once again: agree with the European Union, bring the EU funds due to our beloved country, because if they do not, we will be able to sit here again in a few months, and we will have to discuss another budget proposal, but in that they will have to deal with an ever-increasing crisis. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-06-13-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who will also give his speech here on the platform. I'll wait for the congressman to wake up. Thank you very much. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-69	Mr President, Dear House, As a right-wing man, I always look at the draft budget from the point of view of prosperity in the homeland, from the point of view of a typical Hungarian family in a living situation, such as a Hungarian family thinking about having children or a Hungarian family raising children, the draft that is in front of us, what opportunities it has and what opportunities it has. I am looking at all of this from the point of view of how normal life can be made possible, how much closer this draft budget brings. I have to add that it is also very important to bring normal wages closer, because we see that, in addition to the depressive mood which unfortunately entangles the country, it is very important to look at the financial means that allow it to thrive. Unfortunately, the Hungarian wage level in the international statistical space was not much closer to the European average, not to mention Western European. Perhaps the Secretary of State and my fellow Members agree with me, regardless of party standing, that it was incredibly annoying to hear that we could open a pastry shop in Vienna; at a later age, after the 60-70-inch lookout period, it was extremely annoying to listen to me about the last few years to catch up with Austria by 2030, while we all knew that unfortunately this vision was not in front of our country at the moment. Hungary's current success could be achieved by the fact that everyone who wants to do so could manage in their homeland; if the desired children could be born in Hungary, and if hundreds of thousands of forced-out workers did not appear here temporarily from the third world to replace the hundreds of thousands of forced-out workers. So when I look at the facts, I look at the numbers of the previous accounts, and I try to look at them through these glasses. It is worth taking a look at the fact that in the last year, similarly to the budget submitted in the middle of the year, its planning should not be discussed or be incorrect, without doubt in a troubled year, in a year heavily burdened by external circumstances, but how suitable it was for planning. And, well, what we see is that, indeed, that predicted 4 percent economic growth has indeed peaked in a technical recession, and although many factors can be blamed for that, it is quite certain that if we had not looked at these plans in the middle of the year, but rather, say, a month or a half before the budget year, we would probably have come closer to reality. I could say the same thing about the HUF/euro exchange rate, where, let us recall, in 2010 the then Fidesz government took over the government in the area of 266 forints/euro, which took up around 360 forints/euro before the news of the first armed conflict. Then we know that you could plan a budget for any exchange rate, when it went to 430 or higher, then it certainly increased the burden of the budget in an extra and decisive way, and someone had to pay the price. In Hungary, this price is not paid from the support of multi-company companies, but from the direct or indirect spending of tax forints affecting Hungarian families. This could mean a direct transfer to the family, or it could mean, say, health, social and educational systems, saving on these here or there, directly or indirectly. This is exactly the kind of exercise that will accompany you through the past few years. We see that when this budget had to be amended by regulation at the end of the year, the Secretary of State may confirm that not only extra minuses appeared here, but they also found extra extra, because at higher prices, Hungarian families paid so much unrealisticly high VAT into the budget that you had to change the expectations of VAT in the order of around 900 billion, right, around 900 billion. So I'm not exaggerating when I say that not only did the various plans go off on the expenditure side, but also on the revenue side, there was only a thousand billion-dollar difference in VAT. It's a clear mathematical proof of unthinkableness. So don't suspect any opposition conspiracy here, which would definitely undermine the credibility of the budget, it's pure mathematics. We can get closer to the facts if the period between the adoption of the budget and the beginning of the budget period is as short as possible. If this is only a month in a country where, by the way, a few days, then obviously the margin of error is lower. I urge you to consider giving up this nine-year tradition, making it easier for you to do your job. All in all, we need to see... I need to talk about the system of family support, not just a few, a lot of words. I very much welcomed the fact that, in 2010-11, the system of family support was transformed in such a way that, rhetorically speaking, it not only encouraged childbearing, but it rewarded it, and the system began to repay it. In previous family tax incentives, for example, there was a discount from the three - child group or even there. [[15.30]] And what we're seeing here is that the family tax relief system and the different forms of support worked. Now let's move past the fact that the sjai-free was promised from mothers with three children, but then they calculated how much it would cost; they saw that it cost a lot, so they made this decision for mothers with four children, representing a much smaller population, saving the budget, but giving up exactly the demographic target. What we do see, however, is that this family support system is not a follower of inflation, and, Mr State Secretary, we should find answers to that, if there are demographic targets behind it, unfortunately, the numbers do not confirm this, then the only way that it makes sense is that every year, dogs are bound to follow inflation. Compared to this, we see that around the 88 000 live birth numbers of 2022 there has been a serious debate in this House, and I would like to be involved in this debate. I find it profoundly incorrect to expect a huge, explosive number of live births over 100,000 at a time when the number of women of childbearing age continues to decline. But I also find it incredibly incorrigible to the government's behaviour, which, after the disaster in the late 2000s with a very bad memory, claims to be the success of the Fidesz governments in all countries, while this is not so. The figures show that this country can produce birth numbers below 90,000 or around at the moment; we do not see the leaps due to the government's family policy measures, and that is a problem. In two cases, we see a temporary loop, and we also have to welcome them very much, but overall, this family support system has not been able to meet the demographic targets; it has not been a trend turn; it has not been possible to achieve that the gap between the desired children and the children that have actually been born is not a trench or a gap. And if there's a standard for the work of a government, it's number 1, 2 and 3, and that's why I'm standing in front of you. If you want to improve this catastrophic situation and ensure prosperity in the homeland for all Hungarians, you should, on the one hand, call home, entice those who are forced abroad, not the six-graduate career builders, who I hope will only come home in the middle or at the end of the flow chart; I am thinking of those who, say, had foreign currency credentials, and pay their credit to the forint from the income realised in a Western slaughterhouse. These are the people I'm talking about; they thrive in the West by compulsion; they should be here in this country; they have family plans, childbearing plans, and they can't be here with us. Mr. Secretary. Where's the calling-home program in this budget? Where is the housing program for those who emigrated under duress? You know what I see? The number of housing subsidies, listed among family subsidies, is reduced from 382 billion to 181 billion; it is reduced by less than half. Let's get his reasons out of the way. You may know the professional solution behind this and point in a positive direction to the split of a budget line; I dispute that. In my view, housing is another key to prosperity in the homeland, to solving demographic issues and to achieving a measurable future in this country after a hundred years. How can such a line so directly linked to family support and, where appropriate, half be reduced? I'm stunned in front of all this! And let's say a few words because my opposition colleagues in family support can never avoid family allowances! Let's just say at 00:00, I'm a big fan of double the family allowance, but not just any way. I can't accept the idea of giving people double the money they want, and then spending it for what they want; I think that would be a comfortable, disoriented attitude. I undertake that I would like to conclude that only in the interests of children can this increased amount be spent; this has one guarantee: the family card. The institution of the family card we have placed on the table is capable of spending the double family allowance, which is subjective, on basic food, child-rearing articles, the child's housing and the spiritual services it needs, on livestock. If this condition is met, I would double it tomorrow, and we will also present the amendment in this regard, so not unconditionally, but we will clearly declare and undertake the doubling in the interests of the children, not on the basis of subjective rights, and I repeat once again, under serious conditions. But I also feel bad when I think about changes in the system of family tax incentives. I very much welcomed the introduction; I think the limits were appropriate at the time of the introduction, so the amounts that could provide real support for the average income were roughly mapped. But, Mr. Secretary, what has happened since then? There was a year when it was selectively increased, weighted by inflation, say, the family tax relief for two children, but there were many years when it wasn't. This system is not a follower of inflation, and a good part of family support can be said to have lost half of their value since the introduction, and these values have not been compensated for by anyone who knows why? Because children's education articles have the 27 percent fine, the highest in Europe, and the price of these has gone far more far than any support could have followed. Even with a system of family tax incentives that follow inflation, we could not fully compensate for the penalty tax that these families pay through VAT. So, as a further suggestion, at least accept the VAT certification of children's education articles; if they are afraid of the whole basic food circle for something, because they think it is expensive, at least don't pay more tax on children's education articles than a family is receiving in the form of a family allowance for the child. I think this could be a party-independent foundation, and everyone above the parties would be able to do it, just because the government is very, very careful, and plans a 6 percent inflation rate for the next year. I would like to say that if, by December of this year, and I am a fan of this, the Prime Minister is able to achieve a single-digit inflation average by December, then that can't mean less than 17 percent inflation, can it? That's how the arithmetic average comes out for 12 months of the year, and if you can turn 17 percent into six next year, I really will applaud you. If you will take my word for the next budget debate; if you succeed in the 6 percent, you can expect a round of applause from me, but I do not want to make a joke, because this is a very serious issue. The thing is, we have strong reservations about 6 percent inflation, which you know why it's wrong? Because in the entire budget, support for families will be drawn up on the basis of this six-percent inflation expectation. So if this is only a few percent overkill, there are some where it is supposedly and supposedly compensated afterwards, as in the case of pensions. But with the actives, with the children's children, it's not going to be compensated and compensated, it's something that families should manage at the expense of their own budgets. This is not a realistic expectation, Mr. Secretary. It is not possible to plan family support with 6 percent inflation. Let me give you an example. Budget support for kindergartens and primary schools is increasing by 6.6 percent. This means that if inflation is only 7 percent, we need cuts in this system so that they can be managed. I know you used to say that because we are old professional partners, that the key in the hands of the municipalities is to make up for these sums, that is undoubtedly true. But if the municipalities are also victims of withdrawal, they will not be able to make up for it; then again, there is a need to save on something within kindergartens, which I think is unacceptable to all Hungarians who feel good, there cannot be a goal; I think the same for primary schools. There is a negative syrup that pours down the whole system, Mr. Secretary of State, and this is that while we are trying to save money, we have the same guarantee for kindergartens, schools, well, our repayment burden, so as the cost of personal or fast credit in the family budget, is much higher than the price of long-term bank loans, and here the public debt has gone so far that it was really impressive, as Minister Varga spoke about it, because I believe that the story could be protected in proportion to GDP. And when a credit rating agency examines the situation of the Hungarian sovereign debt, it is really good to reduce it to below 70% of GDP again, and a credit rating company might even say that this national economy is okay. But there is also a nominal side of this, Mr Secretary of State, and this is important to me because the debt repayment burden of 20 000 billion in 2010 is measured in HUF 50 000 billion, is measured in thousands of billions, and when we started the professional discourse in 2011-12, it was about a thousand billion per year when 900 was when 1250 billion was the repayment burden that had to be paid after the government debt. And here we are, Mr. Secretary, that the thousand billion-dollar scale has been 2541 billion forints, and now it is going up to 3144 billion forints. This will already approximate the value of one kind of frozen EU framework by magnitude. [[15.40]] So when we talk about missing EU funds, let's see that Hungary pays this magnitude on the other side because of its brutally increasing interest burden. I wouldn't really like to be demagogic and mention the amount of IMF credit at that time and weighted by inflation, but this is a very serious ballast for the whole system. I would be genuinely interested in what is the government's sovereign debt strategy for years because it has been said that we are going to outgrow this sovereign debt, the economy is going to overturn it, and this amount will represent a smaller percentage of the budget every year, and now we see that the burden of debt repayment is increasing year after year and it will take away the resources. In this, I think we all agree that it will take the source away from other necessary and, in many cases, indispensable improvements. I could talk about 126 billion spent on public media and other items, which is debateable about how much it needs, but if it all comes down to such a cost of over 3,000 billion dollars and we don't see what the idea of management is, how the government wants to manage it in the coming years, it's very difficult to make credible proposals about getting out of this situation. It is even more alarming, Mr Secretary of State, that a year ago, according to press reports, when the budget was adopted, we planned such an interest payment burden of 1,400 billion, and this was brutally lost. So in a very short period of time, the value of this will be blown off to double. This amount is now rising compared to this, and we do not end up paying more annual debt interest payments than we realize as an EU source, especially in the current situation, when the 700 billion membership fee is paid, our market is open, multi-companies generate profits, which are often untaxed rounds out of the country, and on the other hand, there is nothing in the government's economic policy and rhetoric due to other factors. The revenue side is empty in this respect. So this is undoubtedly a vulnerable, horribly difficult situation, with which we must do something, especially if the losses of the Hungarian National Bank add up to these expenses; it is also a burden of 400 billion, and I still do not understand your regulation. The regulation is that if there is a loss to the Hungarian National Bank, then it will be paid by the Hungarian taxpayer, the budget. There are other countries, so let's not get involved in this. But what about his profits? Over the last 12 years, there have been countless years when the Hungarian National Bank has made horrific profits, but there has not been a regulation that you have laid down here, which would have made this mandatory payment to the budget. I can't help it. I always think I can handle a budget keynote speaker without a foreign exchange loan, but I can't, and I don't want to. So there was a year when the Hungarian National Bank realised a horror profit on the foreign exchange loan conversion. Why didn't you make him pay for that, Mr. Secretary? If you invest it then, turn that money around, now the $400 billion loss could be financed from it. Thus, the extra revenue did not work, and now the extra expenditure is paid by the Hungarian taxpayers. And even now, this week, I've heard a reason that you saved the currency-loaners, which I have to put in place, because the historical financial policy self-sacrifice that you've produced in that area, I can't compare it to any other example. So the fact that they were forinted at the market rate rather than at the exchange rate at the time of admission, but before the lucky ones, the discount rate was set, is an unprotected system. Even if there were no end-payments, they could have shown themselves to the market, but because the lucky ones had a discount rate and the simple Hungarian people had nothing, this is a completely unacceptable system, they took a thousand billion-dollar fortunes away from the credit-damaged ones and they were afraid of the banks unduly, even if the banks also showed apparent losses. But it is certain that this financial system and the banking system with which a pact was concluded and the EBRD pact was concluded did not have a bad impact on foreign exchange lending, but the masses of Hungarian families were extremely bad, and without exaggerating, demographic data and emigration data also show the foreign exchange-credited disaster and the loss of confidence which resides and resides in hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people. We can also see that if we look at the implementation system, the excesses of the implementation system, then the picture is that Hungarian families have been institutionalized here, so many Hungarian families, and there cannot be a budget debate without talking about their fate. All in all, if the goal is real, and I trust that helping Hungarian families to thrive in the homeland, then instead of streamlined and rolling the import of migrant workers, they should think more about a wage development program. The whole point of our concept of normal wages is that the future release of EU funds and, by the way, the resources generated by the Hungarian extraprofit should also be placed in a wage development fund where micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can turn if they want to develop wages along with investments of national strategic importance. Otherwise, the concept of normal wages could be started by the state itself by means of wage planning and continuous approximation of the public sector to the European average, and it could draw other sectors. But let us not forget that this government also has a lot of strategic contracts with multi-company companies. We have already examined them thoroughly last year, and we have not found any clause in these that would at least increase wages in line with productivity growth; either that or not. This is decided by market conditions, and it is not right. Mr Secretary of State, you should renegotiate these contracts and not give the multinationals an endless discount, but make sure that a normal wage level can be demonstrated here, too, in order for Hungarian families to thrive in their homeland. So I've listed three areas, they work independently of each other, but at last touch one of them, do something in these areas. I'll give you an example. The battery company case has a lot of branches, but one thing is definitely irritating. These companies receive hundreds of billions of non-refundable grants, of a kind that is not open to Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. So our demand is to stop this support system, to open it up to Hungarian companies, and our Hungarian quota proposal is precisely about the fact that the amount of support put together with the Hungarian taxpayers' money can only be granted in the form of non-refundable support by a company that provides Hungarian jobs that allows Hungarian families to make a living. I would like to make it very clear that I am rejecting all kinds of quotas, whether it be migration, be it any other kind of quota. The political community of the Jobbik-Conservatives in this case is a zero tolerance principle. We are allowed in the direction of a quota, this Hungarian quota, which protects Hungarian workers against the flood of migrant workers. We didn't tell you here to shut these multi-company companies out of the market. We have not prohibited people from crossing the European border if they arrive as migrant workers. We say and this is not such a big deal, and you should respect that, so that the support money added together by Hungarian taxpayers can only support the jobs of Hungarian families in terms of coming up or maintaining them. I do not want to see Hungarian taxpayers financing the jobs of migrant workers for foreign companies that then either untaxed profits from the country or not. It is absolutely amazing, therefore, that such a situation could have developed at all, that this should be discussed, but it is certain that neither the import of migrant workers, organised migration or quota-like solutions can be a solution for the future of Hungary. Only support for families, a programme for normal wages, wage development and a calling programme for those who have been forced abroad can be a solution. And the community of Jobbik-Conservatives places all of its budget amendments to this goal in order to achieve not only normal wages but also normal life for all Hungarians, and the key to this is the idea of living well in the homeland. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-06-13-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Dóra Dúró, vice-president of the Parliament, is the lead speaker of the group of our countries. Madam Vice-President will also be speaking here on the pulpit of the platform. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, According to the Hungarian Movement, the government's economic policy is strategically flawed, as it virtually cements the low wages by consciously installing migrant workers. This is not suitable for improving living standards and quality of life. After 13 years of two-thirds Fidesz governance, your family policy and economic policy have unfortunately not been suitable for demographic change in Hungary. If we are talking about livelihoods, perhaps the most important issue is wage developments in Hungary and the low wages in our country. This is the result of the government's economic policy, a conscious policy on your part. [[15.50]] As a result, we have now come to the point that the minimum wage is the second lowest in our country in the European Union. It is only Bulgaria that is behind us in this indicator, according to Eurostat data. In 2008, therefore, during the less glorious governance of the socialists, we had eight other countries behind us in terms of the fact that it was cheaper for an employer. Now there are only three of them behind us in this indicator, so this shows that it is solely the responsibility of the Orbán governments and the result of their economic policy that we have been so backward in this international comparison. If we look at the education sector, the situation is even worse, because Hungary shows the second lowest value for employees in the education sector in this respect, so the wages of teachers and the wages of those working in education in general are extremely low, even compared to the entire Hungarian labour market, in Hungary it is low compared to other Member States. But we need to talk not only about the size of wages, but also about the value of the buyer, and I would like to recommend the latest figures of the HCSO to the House in this regard, because, on the basis of the report of the HCSO, the value of the wage has decreased by 48 percent over the last seven months, and we do not see any signs in the budget of 2024 that this reduction would be compensated in some way or even that the value of the purchase would be increased. At the same time, unfortunately, we also see inequalities growing in society. This is also the result of the failed Covid policy and also the consequences of the government's social policy. We should hope that the wage catch-up or catch-up will start, but just a few hours ago, the majority of the government adopted the migrant import law that allows the migrant workers on which you base the Hungarian labour market in the coming years to arrive in Hungary in a light way, against which the MiHazank Movement protests in the strongest possible way and does not accept it in any way. It is outrageous that in the coming years up to 500 thousand five hundred thousand! a migrant worker can arrive from Asia to Hungary, as this virtually cements the low wages and weakens the wage bargaining position of Hungarian workers to an extreme degree. Their lack of need is the key to the fact that wages cannot be expected in the coming years either, and this can lead to further emigration. At the same time that these legal migrants are being deployed, smugglers involved in illegal migration are also being released on the basis of funding problems, although border protection and their work, of course, have already cost Hungarian taxpayers 650 billion forints to protect against their work. I am talking about border protection, and it is a vain fantasy on the part of the government, of course, that the European Union will ever reimburse these costs. The other day we also read the news that a multi-company is training Indian women into truck drivers in Hungary. They train Indian women in Hungary as truck drivers, who, if they take this job, can then bring their families to Hungary shortly afterwards, and only within the framework of this program have the prospect of 800 such Indian families arriving in Hungary. Now, this is what the Hungarian Movement does not ask for, because this will have not only economic policy but also very serious cultural consequences, which we can already see and experience in Western Europe. There is therefore a strategic difference between the government's economic policy ideas and the economic policy vision of the Hungarian Movement. We do not want to base Hungary's future on battery factories, not on low value-added factories, but on local processing of locally produced food and moving towards self-sufficiency. I would like to stress that self-sufficiency does not mean that we are not bringing anything in from abroad, obviously, but it is also strategic, and perhaps drought and war have shown that we can reduce Hungary's exposure in strategic areas as much as possible. These are therefore the strategic directions that I would like to discuss in more detail: self-sufficiency, security, sustainability and productivity. After all, our economy is perhaps the most lagging behind in this regard. The two-thirds government of 13 years was not enough for you to make substantial progress in the field of water management, for example, in Hungary. This was acknowledged by the Prime Minister himself that the drought damage that occurred last year and could be estimated at around a thousand billion in size could have been avoided or partly avoided if water management infrastructure had been developed before, but because they did not do so, this was why there was such a huge damage. There has been no substantial progress since then, which is partly correct, since it is not good to rush such an infrastructure development, but at the same time it could have been avoided that agriculture and its workers would suffer such a disadvantage. The same can be said for energy supply. In order for Hungary to be independent of energy or move in this direction, the Russian-Ukrainian war had to break out, it had to happen that the price of gas would be so high, and the Hungarian government would only then start to think about how to reduce our exposure to Russia or the United States, and to manage the production and exploitation of domestic resources in this respect. Unfortunately, our productivity level is also the third lowest in the European Union. Six people were behind us in this respect until 2011, so this decline is one of the indicators in which you have managed to subdue even socialist governments, which is not a small achievement, but it is clearly the responsibility of this government. The assembly plants will not ensure that the Hungarian standard of living and quality of life catch up with Western Europe and that the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector, which is working for two thirds of Hungarian employees, should be strengthened instead of supporting foreign multinational companies. Viktor Orbán himself acknowledged that multinational companies are taking more money out of Hungary every year than Hungary has to put back the word "sponsored" here, of course, as so-called support from the European Union, and that there is also emphasis on the word'receiving', because you are planning to deposit 700 billion HUF in the EU budget next year, so that you are still uncertain that we will receive the funds that we are entitled to. That's amazing. So the Hungarian government should at least make sure that until we receive from the European Union the funds that are rightfully due to us, we do not pay this 700 billion forints, which is also the money of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian taxpayers. If, therefore, we do not receive the funds that we are entitled to, then let us not pay this money into the European Union's register. The HUF 70 billion paid to Ukraine was also extremely outrageous, because of course, Péter Szijjártó was able to announce that Hungary did not contribute to a common EU salary, and they decided to do so in one day, and they gave Ukraine this HUF 70 billion to finance the war. [[16.00]] As far as the European Union is concerned, the fact that these subsidies are made available to multinational companies in the majority shows that if Hungary is not a net contributor, it is a net contributor. It is not for nothing that Hungary's membership of the European Union is worth the best for Germany. So as long as you pay Ukraine 70 billion, you will pay 700 billion to the European Union, in return we will receive the Hungarian abuse from the Ukrainian state, the persecution of the leaders of the Hungarian community, and the European Union will try to put immigrants on our backs and enforce LGBTQ ideology in Hungary as well. Instead of Western Asian workers, you should develop a strategy on how to bring home Hungarians who have migrated to the West, because they are indeed the children of our country. It also shows that there are so many Hungarians abroad, that the foreign exchange issue has not been resolved in a satisfactory way, and that the two cycles ago the Hungarians who migrated to the West have developed a new one. Come home, young people have clearly failed, not only have they been able to bring these people home, but more people have gone out ever since. Our Homeland Movement sees the strategic breakout point in the fact that locally produced foods are processed locally, and we can draw up a perspective on that. But even with regard to the food industry, you do not support the businesses or farmers you should. I would also like to illustrate this with a specific example. Bence Rétvári, State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, announced that in order to reduce the consumption of energy drinks, the government will start a campaign to draw the attention of young Hungarians to the dangers of this, and also listed specific examples and cases where, due to the over-drinking of these drinks, an ambulance was needed for young people. However, while this campaign is being conducted by the government, the energy drink company has been supported in recent years with HUF 18 billion of government money. So you want to protect young people from the consumption of energy drinks while supporting the manufacturing company with HUF 18 billion of taxes paid by their parents. It's nothing but hypocrisy! For example, they could have given this 18 billion forints to farmers who produce organic food, who grow healthy food, and then this sector could have gotten on its feet. But this is a hypocritical policy for you. And speaking of children, I have come to the part that is most important for Hungary, the question of demography and family policy. Let me now talk about a little further perspective and not just next year's budget, because it doesn't make sense to talk about family policy for one year, and we need to look at the trends of decades. We need to say and see that we live in a society that spends twice as much money on pensions as it does on family support. The reason for this is obviously Hungary's chorus, and the trend that has been going on for more than forty years in Hungary and in the rest of Europe: every year fewer children are born. At the same time, the 2024 budget is no longer a family-friendly budget, and I will also give concrete examples of why it is not. Minister Mihály Varga set out in his expo as one of the strategic goals of maintaining family support, but this year was not a real year, nor will it succeed in the following year. The vast majority of family support was introduced in 2011, for example tax incentives, but they have been virtually unchanged since then, except for the tax relief of two children. For example, if the tax relief of the three children had increased in proportion to the average wage, it would be worth about two and a half times today, but still only 99 thousand forints. And that's not gonna change next year either. It is true that, in the first part of the 2010s, the tax system supported families to a very high degree and a high degree, and there were signs of this in terms of fertility, but now it can be said that a childless couple under the age of 25 will receive a greater tax benefit than a family with five children. I do not want to speak against young people's tax incentives, which also has its own strategic goals, which is also justified, but it must be seen that the priority support for families has been severely reduced compared to other social groups by the fact that family support has been abandoned or wage increases have not been followed. Therefore, in order to really talk about demographic trends, it is also necessary to introduce a whole new type of family support, and it is also necessary to at least approach the values that were characteristic in the first half of the 2010s in the ratio of existing family support. 2023 It was also a year for which family support had not been abolished in a long time, so the types of family support did not increase, but three forms of family support ceased by 31 December 2022, and these will not be available again in 2024. So unfortunately, we can't talk about expansion in 2024 either. Moreover, this is now reflected in fertility data, which is the biggest problem. I do not want to make it seem to anyone that I think that only monetary benefits will result in more children being born, but that material security is one of the main expectations of young people to have children. Moreover, indicators do not support the fact that the richer a society, the more children are born, as fertility figures are no better in the western part of Europe than in us, as opposed to, say, Africa, where the standard of living is much lower, yet more children are born. But in terms of distribution within Hungary, we also see that most children are born in the poorest region, in the north-east-Hungarian region, and the least in Budapest. So it is not necessarily a question of black and white that only monetary benefits can increase fertility. At the same time, the last 13 years have shown that the government's family support has really increased, that fertility has started in a positive direction, that the indicator has improved after its low in 2011, but last year this improvement has stopped and even declined. We would very much like decision-makers to see what a problem this is. There's no bigger problem! There is no greater challenge for Hungary to face in the 21st century. In the century. Because from what the Prime Minister said, when he said his Prime Minister's speech here in 2018, that in 2030 we should be 2.1 a nation that is growing in numbers, we are now further away from that. If fertility were to increase pro rata in time from its announcement, we would have to approach 1.7, but we wouldn't be able to reach 1.6. We were almost there, with a fertility rate of 1.59, and it fell back to 1,54-1.55. So the problem is huge. The biggest weakness of the budget is that it does not face enough that the growth of fertility in Hungary cannot stop. Not only is the system not a follower of inflation, but there is no element that does not lose its real value again. There is not a single form of family support that would be extended; all of them are reduced and this is not permissible. [[16.10]] And for the economy, I would like to talk about another area, which the Minister also spoke about in his expo, has set the objective of maintaining investments and innovations, and I am complementing this with the question of funding education. From 2017 onwards, the expenditure on the education sector in Hungary has been steadily reduced, and in 2001 the Orbán government also had 5.4 percent of GDP-related expenditure, and in 2024 it will be 4.9 percent, so it will not even reach the level that you provided for this sector in 2001 as well, under the government of Viktor Orbán. If I were to raise the support for education in proportion to GDP only to this level, the wage increase of teachers would not depend on EU funds, which is unacceptable in terms of their philosophy, according to the Mi Hazank Movement, but I would like to point out that there was a period during the governance of Viktor Orbán when they found sufficient resources of state money that ensured that the funding of education, even at the time, was above the average in terms of GDP, as the European Union expected 5 percent, but this is not the case now, and the government is responsible again. And this, this decline, continues to show up in the results, unfortunately. With regard to graduates in the 25-34 age group, we should not even say that we are talking about a socialist heritage in the European Union in the 25th place among young people. 25th place! And that would not be a problem in itself, too, if we also had a strong vocational training that provides good professionals, provides a safe livelihood, but in the meantime, vocational training was also beaten up, practically not part of the Ministry of Education. And what the Minister has said is that the objective of maintaining innovations in the budget is also not met. The investment in innovation per capita in higher education is the lowest in Hungary among the V4s. And here I am not comparing our country with Western European or Scandinavian countries, but I am trying to correctly list only the V4s. We're in the last place! Even ten years ago, we were not the last in this regard, and even after the Czechs, we were the second. But now the Poles and the Slovaks have outrun us. And this shows, in conjunction with what I said at the beginning, that the strategic part of the government's economic policy is that it does not want to invest in education, it does not want to create a knowledge-based society, and this predestines Hungary that the Hungarian people will work for low wages in assembly plants, adding the 500 000 migrant workers you will be deploying here in the coming years. This is not the vision our Hungary is imagining for Hungary. We want them to create a strategy to bring home Hungarians working in Western Europe, and the increase in fertility should not stop, should not fall back, but should again be a goal, a real, realistic goal, a nation growing in its number of souls. And I would also like to say a few words about the so-called human sustainability indicators of workers, because this could also be an outbreak point for Hungary from a budgetary point of view. The way of life is two times more specific than the health system itself. In Hungary, however, the three leading deaths are related to the way of life, and Hungary is the second in the European Union in terms of avoidable deaths, i.e. deaths that can be prevented by changing lives. We are Europe's most obese nation, yet there is no government strategy to change that. 59 percent of Hungarians say they never play sports. If we add those who say that they play sports very rarely, then we get three quarters of the population. Our indicators are disastrous in this respect, even though lifestyle change would increase productivity, as a healthier worker can perform better at work and we could reduce health costs to a large extent if we could do so. I know that there is a government that deals with this, but at the same time it is a comprehensive strategy to review areas of nutrition, movement, smoking, alcohol consumption and drug consumption, and to develop a long-term strategy in this regard, such work is not being carried out at the moment in the government, although it would be necessary, and based on sustainability indicators and the data of the HCSO, we are also moving away from the goals that could result in the Hungarian population improving in this respect in the medium and long term. To sum up, I would like to quote Professor Csath Magdolna, who gave an extremely relevant summary of what is wrong with Hungarian economic policy and what could mean an outbreak. This is what the professor said in one of her studies: We must conclude that, in addition to state support for the relocation of additional assembly plants, including particularly energy-intensive sectors, Hungary cannot move up the development ladder. If we continue to compete with cheap, foreign investment and not knowledge, innovation, a sustainable economic structure that produces high added value, we will not be able to bring in more developed countries in the quality of life and standard of living, in the knowledge and innovation-based competition. For the Hungarian Movement, the draft budget cannot be supported because of what has already been said. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-06-13-72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The keynote speech of the Group of Dialogue, as your group has indicated, is presented by two of their representatives, Mrs Timea Szabó and Mr Tamás Melár. I will give the floor first to the Head of the Szabó Timea Group, who will give her speech here on the stand. I'll wait for the Vice President and the Head of the Group to switch places with each other. [[Szabó Timea: This has already happened...]] Yeah, well, then it's up to you.
u2023-06-13-73	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2024 proposal before us is a budget for people's skinning, fidesz theft, and future-threatening slippage. In Fidesz, you have asked for a voter's mandate for a free, welfare-enhancing government, compared to what has been put before us, not only is it completely wrong for us, but it is also a severely restrictive budget. You say that the budget of Fidesz is a stable, predictable budget, compared with 85 times in 2021 and 60 times in 2022 this is ridiculous! Compared to this, Master Mekk is a highly qualified, reliable professional, fellow Members. They're promising predictability right now, but in the meantime, the same thing happens: they steal, squeeze and rewrite the budget. Oh, and of course they're lying; they're lying about the war and the Union and George Soros and Sári Fedák that they won't be able to afford to raise wages for teachers, social workers or those working in health care, but somehow they can steal hundreds of billions from EU funds for canopy-free canopy walks. And somehow, for you to think that there is no money for the above-mentioned bullshit, you can help Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, from whom the state is buying a ruined office building in Bosnyák tér for 244 billion forints. Do you know what HUF 244 billion is? The amount of money that could be used to finance a full year's salary increase for teachers. [[16.20]] But Fidesz is giving this to Viktor Orbán's daughter's husband. Now, that is the true godfather-mentality, my esteemed fellow Members here, the Orbán family first, the last Hungarian people. What's next year's fidesz, skinny budget about? Tax increases, sabotaged savings, broken tax reduction promises, special taxes on our necks, withdrawals leading to mass redundancies in the public sector, eviscerated public education based on threats, lack of teachers, dying patient care, humiliated elderly and home nurses, brutal cuts in the environment, shut-down traffic developments, decommissioned utility protection. This is on one side, on the other side, the absurd items. Once again, Fidesz spends 126 billion forints on the lie factory called the public media to continue to lie comfortably about the mass murderer, war criminal, Orbán-dude Putin, or even the left, and the alleged enemy of the European Union, which has so far managed to fatten itself up very nicely with its money, comrades of Fidesz Döbögy, in recent years. But let's continue to see what else the Fidesz says is going to cost instead of a teacher's or a social wage increase. Well, what else is more propaganda? The Rogán Propaganda office will receive another HUF 150 billion for its infocommunication services only. This could increase the wages of social workers, for example. You know, the people who take care of our children in the cradle, or who tend to our elderly, sick parents in nursing homes after you have brutally raised care in the nursing home with the help of the Lex-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de. But no, this is for Antal Rogán. Do you even know how much Fidesz gives you, a mother who spends her whole life at home caring for her injured, sick child? 132,000 forints per month net. He's got to take care of you and your kid every month. A mother or sister who nursed an adult because, for that reason, the children grow, but they will still be disabled and unable to self-sufficiency, and you will receive a net HUF 57,000 per month. That's what you give home care people. Shame on you while you're throwing 1.3 billion forints into the operation of the Fidesz-defeated National Sports! But there is also 47 billion forints for international sporting events, but even the renovation of a Lebanese church for 1.5 billion forints was possible in front of teachers or home care mothers. Then comes the more serious crimes, my fellow Members, the sale of our country to Chinese and South Korean battery factories, the total eco-coating of Hungary. At the battery factories, Chinese and South Korean environmental pollutants are given hundreds of billions as state aid, which do not comply with any environmental regulations, where Hungarian workers are almost animalized and intimidated. It's enough to think about last week's drunken poisoning, where dozens of workers were taken to the hospital because they were working with toxic substances, but they didn't give them work clothes. It's interesting, by the way, that Korean workers had protective clothing on them. The same Chinese and Korean factories pour carcinogenic substances into the soil, into our wells, the same factories literally drain our drinking water, and destroy the government's best quality agricultural land when, due to climate change, the food produced locally becomes literally a matter of life and death in a few years. And what direct or indirect costs do these factories have? Only one example: In 2021 the Jászberény battery factory was lit up, and 80 firefighters from ten cities came to serve it. According to the disaster management, it was purely blind luck that the wind didn't bring the toxic substance to the city because of the wind. You will pour 100 billion forints into these factories in Fidesz next year, so that you can steal them for your friends again. According to György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, the introduction of battery factories is a total trap, but you do not even listen to their own central bank president. The economy is in recession. Even according to public statistics, wages are worth 7 percent less on average. We have the highest inflation rate across the EU, 24.5 percent, while I deliberately mention the neighbouring countries in Romania alone, less than half, 10 percent, but only 14 percent in Poland and Slovakia. Interestingly, these countries are all bordering on Ukraine, but we have so-called war inflation. Well, why would that be? Because there is no such thing as war inflation. It's your lousy, lying, lousy propaganda again. It's just Orbán inflation. Fellow Members! There is a living crisis in Hungary that has not been seen since the regime change, but the Hungarian government does not care. Only propaganda has family-friendly governance, in reality, families have to pay for their own thievery. Expenditure on the welfare function is reduced by 2 percent in real terms next year, the family allowance has not been increased for 13 years. Support for children's meals is practically also not rising next year, when food inflation is 40%. This is the so-called Fidesz family-friendly governance and budget. The shortest period and the lowest amount of unemployment benefits will continue to be paid in Hungary throughout the European Union. The budget for next year is so small that it does not reach 8 per cent of welfare expenditure. Meanwhile, residential consumption is falling. Retail sales decreased by 13 percent this April. In the private economy, there's a surge of bankruptcy and thousands of employees are being discharged from the public sector. The government will reduce the support of Posta by HUF 1.1 billion. They're closing the mailboxes. Magyar Posta is forced to release 1200 people this year. With this, once again, they save 1 billion forints, while they put 3 billion forints in next year's budget for community wine marketing. Really, where do you live? ! What are you doing to this country? ! Do you think that's okay? As we've almost gotten used to, in this budget, they're completely lying in the face of public sector workers. In the general justification of the draft budget, I quote that, in addition to the moral appreciation of public service workers, the government is also giving priority to their financial appreciation, and the annex to the same draft budget shows that the expected wage growth of the public sector will be under the pay of the competitive sector. See if anyone could've seen through this latest scam. The extent of the so - called moral appreciation of public sector workers can be made clearer by the way in which more than 600 employees were dismissed from the Treasury in the days when they were informed of the termination through the customer gate. Congratulations on this great honor. This is the same ignominious Fidesz-tempo that appears in the Status Act. Pride, insensitiveness, treatment, control, intimidation, and looking like a complete fool, my fellow Members. And then I reached one of Hungary's current shames, the part of the budget concerning teachers' wages. My fellow Members, we have said it a thousand times, and I will say it again: it is a hair-scarring, nonsense and a despicable political game that the government is linking teachers' wage increases to EU subsidies. Minister Palkovics already said in 2016 that the next year the teachers' wages will be increased to 80% of the graduates' wages. I mean, let's just say I don't even open up why teachers are only worth 80% of graduates, but it doesn't matter now, or it's incidental, because Palkovic said there's money in the budget. Since then, somehow, who knows why, it hasn't been, it hasn't been, and so it's easier to lie about how the Union should give it. Of course, there is a 45 percent increase requested by teachers in the Dialogue-Greens amendment proposal. This represents HUF 285 billion on the expenditure side, about what the government buys from István Tiborcz's friend the semi-finished office building built in Zuglo, which the locals want to go to hell for. Which item better serves Hungary's prosperity: I would ask my fellow Members of the Fidesz to explain at least this in silence to themselves, listening to their consciences. But the Dialogue-Greens also found money to raise wages for social and health workers. The country is very much involved, my fellow Members, including you, if you continue to destroy health care. North Korean states are quoted by the fact that a whole region of North and Central Hungary is provided by a single surgeon in pediatric surgery, only one hospital. [[16.30]] North Korean states are quoted by the fact that a cancer patient, an elderly woman, gets rescued in five hours, and the North Korean states that a CT scan, an MRI, and now a simple eye exam can be requested for 2024, that is, next year. The fact is that the gross withdrawal from health care and the destruction of patient care are, of course, primarily the Hungarian people, but at the end of the day you too will see the damage and drink the juice. There will be no cancer care, for example, in private health. You can go for chandelier tests now, but when you need more complicated surgery and cancer care, it's not gonna be private. So if you destroy public health care, both you and your families will drink the money. After 13 years of governance, we still have the most people dying of cancer in the European Union. You talk about family-friendly governance and budget, but what could be a bigger rebuttal than the fact that this year there are still fewer children than before 2010. We've talked about this before. If what you do in Fidesz is so good, why don't you have more kids? I'll tell you why, because it's not a family-friendly government. Every Hungarian family knows that you are not family-friendly, but a family-skinning government, and the budget is a family-skinning budget. It is not better to look at the budget from the perspective of a green party. The most striking feature is that the Orbán government is pretending that we are not in 2023, but, let's say, in 1973. Fifty years apart, fellow Members, that's all you're missing. There is no indication in the draft budget that we have been up to our necks in the climate crisis for years. In practice, the government has nothing to do with climate protection, renewable energy and energy efficiency applications, and there is no news of the panel program. The country's most precious natural resources, the natural parks that preserve most of biodiversity, could not increase their real estate, there is no water-saving, modern irrigation. In Spain, by the way, 75% of irrigated areas are irrigated with drip technology. [[Gábor Bányai: Home too!]] In our country, while a good part of the country is deserted even according to the meteorological service, the proportion of sustainable irrigation solutions can hardly be expressed, and no resources are intended for this next year. The country's entire drinking water network is in ruins, in the roughest droughts, 25 percent of clean drinking water is leaking through leaky pipes, and there is no evidence that this is subject to minimal modification. No greenland development, no water conservation, no habitat protection, no nothing. More is intended to irrigate the lawn of football stadiums than to irrigate all other grasslands in the country. You see where the world is going, and what do you do compared to that? I'm asking you again where you've been living. Some kind of basement? Compensating your future-destructive budget, the Dialogue-Greens will present proposals for amendments to compensate for at least the most serious social and environmental damage to this austerity budget. In our proposal, we redistribute a significant amount of money to modernise the energy efficiency of the apartments. You promised this in 2010, but it didn't turn out to be a lie, and the panel programme needs to be restarted. Dialogue Green also transfers a larger amount to rail, the most sustainable mode of transport, for which tens of billions of euros are spent elsewhere in Europe. The quality of service of the MÁV is already pathetic for Romania or Bulgaria. We try to shape the budget the way the XXI. It would be appropriate for the European Union to live in a Central European country threatened by climate collapse and not in a Soviet colony in the 1970s. The Dialogue-Greens would like to see the vision of a sustainable, socially fair Hungary here not only on a moral basis, but also because it is the only guarantee of Hungary's future and economic growth. We have prepared, calculated, and you will only have to vote for this, in all other cases, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, you are pushing this country into an unimportable slippage. Thank you.
u2023-06-13-74	She has managed to pour all the wrongs on this budget. This will be continued by Congressman Tamás Mellar. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It has been mentioned several times today that the application of the budget law has once again been too early, just as it has been in previous years. This time, however, not only opposition representatives but also the SAO and the Fiscal Council have called for it. We've been saying this for a long time, yet the government insists. Why? I think I know the answer to that. Because this way you can make it easier to get Fidesz MEPs to accept it, because it will be easier to change the design numbers, as the base numbers can also change. Let me give you two examples. One example is inflation. Inflation is set to 6 percent next year. Obviously, at the end of the year, we will find out how much annual inflation will actually be, and it will be well calculated, or roughly well calculated, how realistic this is at all. If inflation is higher than 6 per cent, the budget will obviously win, because its revenues will increase nominally, but at the same time expenditure will not have to be recovered, and expenditure will obviously fall in real terms. The other example is even better, because it shows even more clearly where we stand, the debt/GDP ratio. The plan now states that by the end of this year the debt-to-GDP ratio will fall to 69.7 per cent and fall to 66.7 per cent by the end of next year. What happens if, by the end of next year, the debt/GDP ratio is, say, 70 percent? Nothing really happens, nothing has to happen, because if it turns out that at the end of this year the debt-to-GDP ratio is 71 percent, then it will continue to happen that the debt-to-GDP ratio will decrease, so no harm has occurred. Why am I saying this? Because this was already the case once, in 2021 you could see very well, this was the case. The government's view is obviously that the budget must be submitted because predictability is increasing, people, families and businesses can adapt much better to what is expected next year. They say this by forgetting how many times, how many times, during the course of the year, there were significant changes in taxation, for example. Let's just think about the recent cadaver modification that was knocked down and carried over in almost a few days. So there's no such thing as getting better at this anyway. However, it is obviously almost irrelevant from the point of view of governance that we are adopting a budget here, because in recent years it has also been seen that the government has been able to deviate completely from it and has deviated from it in recent years, with reference to the exceptional situation and the state of the situation it is able to adapt very flexibly to the new conditions and almost ignore the budget. I would like to draw attention to something very important. Obviously, it also comes from my age that I remember the old times, when during the socialist period, an,, pull it out, let economic policy prevail, or, more elegantly, the type of economic policy of the, stop-go, which was the essence of which, at the time, during the period before the party conventions, the economy was greatly stimulated, investments increased, consumption increased, and, consequently, the balance was greatly impaired, public debt increased, the lack of external trade balance increased. Therefore, after the party conventions, the period of restraint became necessary when investments were held back, didn't it, Comrade Marjai unplugged the individual investment items? What are we looking at? We see the same thing, same thing. [[16.40]] Before the elections, a major economic recovery took place. The money was almost spent in 2021 and early 2022, the economic balance deteriorated, as the external trade balance, the current balance of payments, the general government deficit became higher than what was planned, and we should not even talk about inflation, and inflation has increased to a huge extent, which is now necessary, even this year, after the phase of the, pull it out. So there have been significant cuts, and next year will also be a budget for restraint. Obviously, the government was expecting EU money to come, and it would somehow get through this whole thing, but it couldn't get through it, and that's why this is definitely going to happen. It is very important to stress that there will be cuts here not because there is war or because of sanctions in Brussels, but because in 2021 and early 2022 this economy became extremely overheated. Just think that if the steady-state growth rate of this economy is somewhere between 1 and 2 percent, then 7 percent and 4 percent economic growth can only be achieved if this economy is very much overheated, and that is the fundamental reason. What you can see on the revenue side is that the government is failing to drive out extraordinary taxes, and this will obviously have to be broadly settled with the European Union. However, it can also be seen that in previous years, the government has constantly claimed that the Orbán government is the government of tax reductions, the left is the one that always raises taxes. Now it's kind of turned around, and now you can expect significant tax increases almost everywhere, on all fronts, in all areas. This also shows that the policy based on the possibility of increasing competitiveness by reducing taxes has proved to be a dead end. However, it seems that there is a dual purpose of increasing taxes: one is to increase revenues and the other is to carry out a sort of selection instead of the market, and to appoint certain , and I do not like, companies, and to distribute separate taxes accordingly, which will obviously lead to a significant market distorting effect in this whole story. What do we see on the expense page? On the expenditure side, there is only very modest growth, with nominal growth below 10 per cent, except for the protection of the country, where there is a 55 per cent increase. Well, we're pro-peace, and that's why we're fighting on the front of peace. This is also an old socialist memory, I vividly remember this, when we fought hard on the front of peace in KGST and the Warsaw Treaty. The other thing is that the government has announced the lawnmower principle, that is, that savings are needed in the public sector, and that there must be a 10% general cost reduction everywhere. Again, it is a faulty story, since it repeatedly records a particular situation in Hiber and records a particular situation instead of weighing and focusing. For example, in terms of education and health, there is a need to increase, not to hold back. It would be time for a zero-base budget to develop, i.e. during such a period of time, it would be clear that we could break away from the bases and really create real centers of gravity. I am now trying to quote that there is HUF 2478 billion of EU funding in this budget and that it is 3605 billion in use. If the expected resources fail to come in, but at the same time the spending takes place, this will obviously bring down the planned general government deficit very badly, perhaps not the Maastricht, but certainly the cash flow. So I think that this is a serious risk element, and you have brought this to the attention of the Minister, if I remember correctly, both bodies, the Fiscal Council and the SAO. The next thing you know, it's important to refer to, and that's the pace of economic growth. Four percent economic growth has been set by the government. This has also been questioned by the experts, since there is no way to see the source of this significant economic expansion, as investments have been significantly restrained and, at the same time, labour reserves are no longer available, but the labour market has been strained. If we think that we want to achieve an economic growth of 4% without the expansion of the labour market, then this means that productivity growth of 4% should be achieved in a year. I calculated that the average annual increase in labour productivity over the last 12 years was 1 percent, so this is going to be difficult. Of course, foreign capital can be expected, as Minister Márton Nagy said, only if we base growth on foreign capital and migrant workers, then the result and the consequence will be that although GDP may increase significantly, but GNI will certainly not, that is, the disposable income will significantly lag away from this, because the capitalists will all take out profits, and the migrant workers will obviously point out some of the wages, and therefore we will not be able to enjoy the disposable income. I would also like to say a few more words about debt, since it is not possible to miss the enormous size of interest expenditure. Interest expenditure amounts to more than 3 percent of GDP and has risen. This means that a surplus must be achieved primarily at the level of the budget in order to keep the deficit below 3 per cent. In other words, even if there were to be an economic growth of around 4 per cent, a significant part of it would otherwise be borne by the debt interest payment obligation itself. So here is the danger of getting into a debt trap and getting into a debt trap, and this is clearly seen from measures that, at any rate, would like to see retail savings and commercial banks spend more and more resources to buy sovereign debt and bonds so that they do not have to turn to external markets. Finally, I would like to say a few things about the MNB's involvement. On the one hand, this has already been said by several people, and the Budget Council and the SAO have also said that the compensation for the MNB loss is not included in the budget. Obviously, there will be a solution here to bring in a legislative amendment that will result in... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm sorry.
u2023-06-13-76	Time's up, Congressman, it's that simple.
u2023-06-13-77	Good. Thank you very much. [[Szabó Timea: The clock was started earlier for me.]]
u2023-06-13-78	Madam Director, 30 minutes is 30 minutes here and there. [[Szabó Timea: But it wasn't 30 minutes for me, because they started the class earlier, they could have finished it.]] Nothing special. If he had finished, I would have let him, but he decided not to stop. Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP's group is Mr Csárdi Antal, who also speaks from the platform here. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, When assessing the draft budget for next year, we must first assess the situation of the country, society, the economy and our environment. I would like to briefly summarise how the LMP sees this and what it proposes as a way out. We see that the Fidesz government has led the country to a dead end, we have lived up to the future, the current economic, social and environmental difficulties, inflation, livelihood problems, disintegrating education, health and the social care crisis, the growing climate and ecological crisis, and the water scarcity are unsolvable by means of so far. [[16.50]] The cornerstone of the failed Fidesz economic policy is the unlimited, uncritical service of multi-functional capital. This means, on the one hand, the economic service through direct and indirect subsidies, that the whole tax policy, as the whole economic policy, serves the profits of the multinationals, on the other hand, represents the supply of our natural resources, our water, our land, our air, our energy to the profits of the multinationals. Thirdly, it means cutting public services from education to health and environmental protection, disaster management and OSH. The reduction of public services is not an anomaly, but an integral part of the plan, also serves the profits of the multinationals. This is culminating in a failed economic and energy policy, a crazy plan that would turn our country into a battery ring. We don't have anything that would make the country fit for this kind of thing, but in the '50s, the Rákosi era didn't bother political leadership that the country of iron and steel didn't have the conditions. We released the password, make it a Hungarian orange and make it a Hungarian orange, and the saddest thing about it is that the voluntarism of today's leadership is characterized by this in the same way as that of communist times. The turning into a battery ring makes the country more vulnerable, but very few of them benefit from it, and unfortunately, these few have the political power today. But there is an alternative to a failed, dead-end Fidesz policy, and this green turn, which is a radical transformation in energy policy, water management, food production, education, health services and public services for the benefit of all in general, and at the economic level, instead of multi- and multi-billionaires, in favour of small domestic entrepreneurs and simple working people. In order to move the country on a sustainable path, thousands of billions of dollars should be reorganised in the budget, but to do so, the LMP will help us, we will only have to accept our amendments and the country will take a greener path, which will give us a small chance to avoid disaster, which threatens the whole world, Europe and, in particular, our vulnerable, vulnerable and dependent country, especially because of Fidesz's fault. I would add that, if we look at the budget in substance, it is so obvious that the importance and credibility of the budget would otherwise be drastically reduced by professional considerations, as is the fact that it has been submitted too early... and the uncertainty about this, the uncertainty of the macro data given, the uncertainty of forecasts or the deliberate misdesignation of those forecasts, the numbers and processes that can be rewritten at any time with regulation governance, and I could still tell you a long list. I just want to remind you, and I'm sure more people will remember when we talked about the budget for 2023 a year ago, with what inflation the budget for 2023 was planned at the zeroth moment, so when I said my speech at this time last year. I see there's a lot of silence: with 5.2 percent inflation, the budget is planned for this year, and the thing is, if we look at the budget figures, then it's perfectly possible to prove whether the budget at that time or the current one hangs in the air, how much of a cluster of slash-like numbers it is. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The crisis in recent years has shown in a meaty way that Hungary has reached a dead end. If we look everywhere, we are actually seeing crises in economic policy over the last ten years: liberating inflation, fragmented society, millions of livelihood crises, disintegrating health, education and social systems, growing vulnerability and dependence, an ever-increasing pace in the future. Meanwhile, the budget is becoming more and more disintegrating, and the holes are becoming more and more desperately clogged, and the tax burdens on people's level are getting more and more loose. The debt service has been reduced to below HUF 1000 billion a year in the last decade, and in 2024 the debt service will be HUF 2747 billion, which is HUF 1700 billion more. This is the result of a fidesz short-sighted policy, the domination of the moment. Forints 1300 billion are planned to cover the energy bill at state level, so-called overhead protection, but who knows how much it will end, and this 3000 billion-dollar hole is just one that is on the budget. The sign of future survival is that the country has received several Marshall aid resources in the last two EU cycles, since 2010 4-6 percent of GDP has flowed in annually, with a total of around 20 billion [[Sic!]] Forint worth, and that's terrible money. However, this has almost no effect on the economy or society, and the aid to help catch up has not been successful, catching up almost according to any indicator, or even any indicator. Of course, we know why: a large part of the resources went into private pockets, instead of public purposes, another large slice of them fed unnecessary investments. Think of the canopy-free canopy, the 10 or even 20 centimeters high lookout tower, the private accommodation hunting houses built from EU sources, but I could continue the line for a long time. Meanwhile, the world has changed around us, the end of the world economy's decades of grace, we have entered a time of crisis, not only the Covid epidemic and the neighboring war, but the climate and ecological crisis that has a much longer-term impact and is increasing. Common sense would dictate that this situation needs to be changed, if all the signs indicate that the street we're in is a dead end, then normally we don't respond to it by going even faster on the road we've been following. The Fidesz government, however, thinks otherwise, that Fidesz does not really care about the fate of the country, does not care that millions suffer the failure of the government to acknowledge its error. Next year's budget shows that Fidesz is pushing the gas to the curb and speeding up the dead end. If it turns out that the train is finally going the wrong way, it will be extended to Bicsk just because everyone can see today that the government has not made Hungary crisis-resistant in the past decade, but rather severely vulnerable. It is no coincidence that Hungary is the most affected by the crisis in the whole European Union. The biggest is inflation, the largest is austerity. But let's see what mistakes have also led to the fact that the country's regional level of the championship of György Matolcsy's idea of an uplifter, although it has actually been going in the wrong direction for the last ten years, only for the worst of our sorrows. First of all, Fidesz has not reduced our dependence on fossil energy in the last 12 years, but has increased our dependence on fossil energy. In fact, he has been encouraging people to waste energy all along, lying that cheap fossil energy is eternal. But it was clear that we would pay for the more serious addiction someday. Today we are talking about the fact that government representatives also acknowledge that record inflation above 25 percent is primarily due to our high energy exposure. Yet, they are now struggling every day to maintain this addiction, even to deepen it, rather than finally breaking up with it. This failed energy policy only increased our energy bill by HUF 4000 billion last year, of which half the country could otherwise have been isolated if Fidesz had previously followed the proposals of the greens. Our energy imports already consume one-eighth of GDP and 12 percent of GDP, which is simply unsustainable. Secondly, the two-thirds Fidesz victory in 2010 certainly did not change one thing: the sole aim of economic policy was to attract as many large foreign companies as possible to the country and to try to strengthen the Hungarian economy. But the plan didn't work in many ways. Not only did we fail to catch up with Western Europe, but even in the region, we stayed in the semi-periphery, and in the meantime we got to the point that today, not the government, but the capital that is moving here is dictated in Hungary. They can relocate their factories a few hundred kilometers away at any time, but at that moment the Fidesz economic balloon bursts. Therefore, the government, as a humble executive, is forced to fulfill all the wishes of large companies. They take away workers' rights, introduce the slave law, push the country into energy dependence, sacrifice our water, energy, land, and assist these companies in practically not participating in public burdens despite their hundreds of billions of dollars in profits. [[17.00]] In fact, even now, in this crisis, hundreds and thousands of billions of large companies still pay nominal, 9 percent corporate tax, the lowest of all OECD countries would be paid, because because of the many tax incentives, even 6 percent of them cannot really be collected from them. This track is untenable. The only objective of the budget under discussion is to conceal this fact; however, this will be difficult. The ultimate economic policy of the multinationals can only be operated by the government, year after year, with the quality of public services being reduced. The salaries of civil servants are humiliatingly low from teacher to nurse to social worker, the length of waiting lists in a country that considers itself working is unacceptable, there is no money for heating or chalk in schools. I would note here that in the budget of 2024 an additional 4.2 percent will be spent on public catering, after a year when food inflation was, according to official data, 26 per cent, and in a predictable way, will not be significantly lower this year. The government is proud to pass care work on to families for people who have paid taxes for decades to help the state when they are unable to take care of themselves. This is the dead end, as it is getting worse and worse in the education system, our health status is getting worse and more and more people are coming out of the labour market, i.e. the country's competitiveness is getting worse. We're not catching up, we're getting more concrete on our own every day. Unfortunately, we do see that the government is about to hit the wall with its head. The saying is that the smart man learns at the expense of someone else, but the stupid one on his own is Fidesz, unfortunately, not even at his own expense. If something is obviously harmful and bad, well, it will be extended to Bicska; they are still preparing to turn the country into a battery ring, making all the mistakes that led to the current crisis again. The battery companies further strengthen Hungary's dependence, as the whole production process is extremely energy- and water-intensive. The government has already announced that in the midst of the gas crisis, it intends to build new gas plants to meet the needs of new factories, further increasing the country's energy imports and strengthening its vulnerability. Battery companies received subsidies in the order of HUF 1000 billion, and also receive favourable tax systems, tax incentives, practical exemptions from environmental, safety and labour rules. The Hungarian state pays them more than HUF 80 million after creating a single job, while in most cases migrant workers will work there. This is exactly the kind of money that is missing from the budget when it comes to increasing the salaries of civil servants, quality education would require money or money for working health care. The government is talking about power over batteries, but if we have to pay for a big company to come here, it's gonna take our water, our land, our energy, and then it's gonna take the profit home, not great power, but colonization, and it's gonna take it back voluntarily. We're willing to put our heads into this yoke. No matter how many battery factories are installed here, the great powers, the owners and their countries will remain China and South Korea, despite all self-police. The Hungarian economy based solely on the automotive industry has already made the country extremely vulnerable, and now this situation is worsening. This is not a crisis management, it is a rush that will only cause irreversible damage to the country. Fidesz led Hungary to the current dead end. Two things come from this: on the one hand, there is a way out of the crisis, because only bad decisions need to be changed, but not the policy of the current government. The current crisis is caused by an unsustainable, short-term policy, i.e. a lack of green thinking, and it follows that the solution can only be the green light. Let's see what a green budget would look like. The first step is the green light in energy policy. The current crisis has proved to everyone that the less vulnerable a country is, the more crisis-resistant it is, the more it is able to generate the energy it uses from its renewable sources. This is a 8,000 billion forints lesson that the country pays for Fidesz's mistake. This is what we pay for the external fossil energy dependency in 22 and 23, which we would not have had to pay if the government had chosen the route proposed by LMP earlier, energy efficiency and domestic renewables. However, Fidesz seems to have a problem with addiction only at the level of words, since even in the current situation it is struggling to increase the country's energy import needs further. This must stop, because we are already paying a heavy economic and diplomatic price for addiction. Hungary has little fossil raw materials, so we have only one road to energy independence: radical greening, significant strengthening of energy efficiency programmes and renewable capacity. This not only strengthens our independence but also makes our environment more livable, reduces air pollution and creates jobs. Therefore, we would not build gas plants for the Russian gas and not build nuclear power plants for the Russian fuel together with the Russians. Next year, we would spend significant amounts on increasing renewable capacity, implementing the necessary network developments, at least HUF 200 billion, and launching the building energy refurbishment programme with a HUF 600 billion framework, thus achieving a real reduction in costs, because it simultaneously reduces the burden on families, increases the independence of the country, gives orders to domestic construction and creates predictable work in the long term, as opposed to campaign-like public construction. It is at least as important to put an end to the economic policy which, in an extreme way, has exposed the country to capital, to large foreign companies, next year. In Hungary, the share of foreign capital in the production of the corporate sector is above 50 percent, and in this comparison only Ireland is ahead of us, but not for long. These multinationals don't pay taxes at all, profits are cleared out of the country in a thousand billion-dollar order, yet they dictate. This has to stop! It is also necessary to force large companies to bear real public burdens, and to create laws that do not protect corporate interests against the interests of people, but vice versa. We need a fair tax system, where it cannot be imagined that teachers do not come out of their salaries, the care fee is ridiculously low, but companies announce their hundreds of billions of HUF profits. We would therefore raise the upper corporate tax rate to 25 percent and introduce it. Water management, landscape use and agriculture also need a radical turnaround if we do not want to lose our water, our good quality soil, our food in a few years. Last year's drought damage exceeded a thousand billion forints, and such losses will be regular. Rivers should be allowed out of the dams in a regulated way, thus withholding concentrated rains, land use changes should only finance water flow-related production, and not large-scale raw material production everywhere. Organic and organic farming needs to be strengthened, which is only a logical step because they require much less fuel, energy and fertilizer, so not only would our cost-effectiveness be improved recently, but they would also strengthen our independence. It is also an important question of who we collect taxes from, but it is at least as important how we distribute common money. Today, the state operated by Fidesz actually acts as a parody of itself: it supports those who manage themselves and tangle with those who really need help. We would expect greater contributions from the more wealthy, while giving greater support to those in need. In this context, we would finally settle the situation of civil servants, because, unfortunately, in ten years, we have come to the conclusion that public service workers are now among the worst earners. Fidesz is the worst employer in the country, which is humiliatingly low pay for its own employees, threatening them, and apparently has only one desire to leave the public sector as many as possible. We want a country where people in the public sector are re-appreciated and paid for their work, because we know that without their work there is no successful country. [[17.10]] We would therefore launch a general wage increase programme in the public sector so that civil servants do not earn less than those working in the market sector. An immediate increase of at least 50% shall be granted to staff in education. This can be done with an extra 300 billion forints. In the healthcare sector, there is also a need to increase resources among paramedics by at least HUF 500 billion. And the social sphere and the municipal workers can't stay out either. This is more important than burning 320 billion forints of public money for the so-called seduction of one battery factory. And last but not least, we would rather represent the interests of future generations than capital. And there's no better way to do that than education. The government that doesn't invest in education actually doesn't believe in its own countrymen. The situation in Hungary is precisely that, although Fidesz talks a lot about national pride, in fact, its entire policy is based on the fact that it considers our country a second-rate country, which cannot have greater ambitions than being a assembly plant for developed countries. This is why we spend less and less on education and support for large foreign companies in the last 12 years. Instead of providing resources, Fidesz believes that it will create a europeer franchise by botting. We, however, believe that Hungarian people are talented and diligent enough to compete with anyone. If we want to be the most successful country in the region, it does not take much to talk about the fact that we have become a great power, but to create the best education in the region. This requires a significant increase in the amount spent on education and a system of education that does not recreate but eliminates social differences. I think that if he heard these things, the Hungarian government would better implement them, then we would be light-years ahead, and Hungary could really start on a path that could be thought back by future generations that we are proud of. Unfortunately, the reality of the present is that future generations will have no reason to be proud. Thank you for listening.
u2023-06-13-80	Thank you. I respectfully welcome those involved in this debate. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, Now, the speaker invited by the committee representing Hungarian minorities will present the Committee's position within a maximum time frame of 20 minutes. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a representative of the minority, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-81	[[???Danke sehr. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs Nr. T/4181. über den ungarischen Haushalt für Jahr 2024 im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen erörtere.???]] [[???Wie es schon gewöhnt ist, fange ich wieder meinen Diskussionsbeitrag mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe an. Er hat gesagt: „Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muss zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt beleidigen.”???]] Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the T/4181 on the central budget for 2024. Bill No. 1 concerning the parts of the legislation concerning the needs of the nationalities. My comment to the draft budget law is now traditionally started with the quote by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, which reads in Hungarian:. The tolerance can only mark a temporary condition that should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. So acceptance is not enough, only acceptance alone is not enough. We want more, we expect more: recognition. The lives of our ancestors and the deaths of many of them gave us sufficient basis for recognition. We're still working on it. It's a condition of recognition, and it's based on knowledge. Therefore, allow me to start with my comments on the draft central budget law of 2024 for the last eight years, with a look back for the last two cycles. For the last eight years, since the central budget of 2023, its amendment and the current draft of 2024 are very separate from nationalities from the last eight years. Retrospection is also necessary because in the new Parliament there are factions and many Members who did not participate in the work of Parliament in previous cycles, so I think it is important that they receive a comprehensive economic information on the 13 indigenous nationalities living in Hungary. So let us look back at the situation in which the nationalities living in Hungary were in the beginning of the first minority parliamentary term, i.e. in 2014, in what and how we have been able to move forward in the last eight years, where we are, what goals we have, what tasks we have to solve to achieve them. Without due review and knowledge of all of this, it is not possible to give a realistic assessment of the past years or the national needs relating to the central budget for 2024, to deal with them and to make appropriate government and parliamentary decisions. More than nine years ago, at the closure of the 2013 central budget, I started by saying that this first minority Parliamentary contribution should have taken place here in the Hungarian Parliament a great deal more than twenty years ago, so we have to eliminate decades of failure in every respect as soon as possible. Then, for minutes, it was possible and had to be marked as to the conditions under which nationalities living in Hungary have been forced to live and operate for decades. Just as an example and as a reminder: on the one hand, the so-called NMZ frameworks did not change from 2002 to 2014 to support national minority cultural programmes, so that for 12 years, only a fraction of the incoming needs were covered for 10-15 percent. Secondly, the annual budget of HUF 30 million at the time for native school camps was so low compared to the needs that there was virtually no point in applying. On the basis of a minority child, the tender framework at that time was sufficient for two dumplings of ice cream a day. Thirdly, the annual operating support of municipal self-governments was on average HUF 222 thousand per year. This was equivalent to HUF 14,500 per month net. Fourthly, the economic, financial and administrative costs of national self-governments continued to increase without increasing subsidies, with changes in public finance legislation and the various legal requirements. In summary, it should be said that until 2013, the support of nationalities living in Hungary was in a deplorable state, and this is still a very fine expression of the actual situation at the time. However, from 2013 onwards, there have been very positive changes that have been encouraging. On the one hand, the most important and positive change in 2013 from a nationality point of view was, without a doubt, a significant increase in the support of the national minority public education institutions maintained by the national authorities and became normative. On the other hand, by re-establishing the capacity of local minority self-governments to take over and establish institutions, legal opportunities have been opened for the development of national cultural and educational autonomy. With the 2014 parliamentary elections, Parliament's representation was granted to 13 Hungarian nationalities, which opened up new opportunities and a new period for us. The first serious result of the parliamentary representation was that we were able to achieve a breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act by raising the previously less than HUF 4 billion, the unchanged funding framework for a decade and a half by HUF 2 billion and more than 50 percent. [[Resume in 71/2!]] 2022-2026. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 13 June 2023 71/2. Number Parliamentary Diary [[17.20]] In the last eight years, despite the absence of an increase in support in the crisis caused by the pandemic in 2021, we have been able to achieve substantial improvements in the following areas. On the one hand, we have been able to increase the operating and cultural support framework of national minority NGOs to HUF 110-110 million, HUF 500 million and HUF 700 million, i.e. about five and a half times. Secondly, we have been able to increase the 30 million HUF framework in 2014 to more than 13 times more than 400 million HUF for these national minority native language student camps. I would add that we have always, everywhere and in every situation, treated the mother tongue student camps as a top priority, and even this 13-folded framework covers only part of objective, realistic needs, still only about 30-40 percent. Thirdly, we have been able to increase the overall operating support of local ethnic authorities by four times and the so-called task-based differentiated support framework by two and a half times. Fourthly, we were able to substantially increase the support of the institutions maintained by national minority authorities and national minority media and national minority authorities, not the public education institutions in 2015, 2017, 2019 and for the last time in 2022, thus addressing the most pressing financing problems of the operation. Fifthly, we have been able to set up and provide a multi-specific minority supplementary support framework in areas such as support for national theatres, additional operating and renewal support for national minority public education institutions which receive the maintenance and ownership of national minority public education institutions, or a framework for investment, renovation and tendering of national minority public education and cultural institutions operating in the maintenance of national municipalities and associations. Last but not least, what we consider to be of particular importance for our nationality future: the results of the national minority programme. I am pleased to say that, as the first point of the national minority programme developed in the autumn of 2016, we have raised the nationality bonus from 10 per cent to 40 per cent in three steps from 2018 to 2019 and 1 January 2020, in order to improve the appreciation of national minority educators, which means that all ethnic educators who teach or educate in ethnic languages at least 50 per cent of their committed time. At the same time, we have introduced two, now lower, less than 25 per cent and 10 per cent bonus categories for those who have not previously received a nationality allowance after the triple increase. Thus, all ethnic educators now receive a nationality allowance in proportion to their work, in proportion to their education in the language of nationality. I think it is important to emphasise that all ethnic teachers of all nationalities, regardless of the maintenance of the national minority allowance, have received it, and that the wage coverage of the national minority bonus increase was not to be managed under another framework, so to speak, but received it as a budgetary surplus each year, and will continue to be received in the future. With this increase in the national minority allowance, it has already provided and will continue to provide an additional income of nearly HUF 2.5 billion to about four thousand ethnic teachers from 2021 onwards. As another very important point of the minority educator programme, we have launched the minority educator's scholarship in order to increase the number of national educators. As of 1 September 2018, only 87 of the first-year national education students were contracted, 2011. [[Sic!]] From 1 September 2006 we have already signed a contract with 317 students for all three years of kindergarten educators, teachers, teachers and teachers. Since 1 September 2020, we have extended it to every year of each course, concluded contracts with 417 young people, and in this year's 2022-23 academic year we already have more than five hundred students of national education. Finally, as a third point, in parallel, we have made a major effort towards training universities and colleges in order not only to increase the number of ethnic teachers, but also to increase the quality and quality of the education of ethnic teachers, especially the development of ethnic language competences. Even during the general debate of the Central Budget Act 2017 and every year since then, I have continued my contribution at this point by saying that, after all these extremely joyful, long-awaited positive changes, I think that we think that this is a moment where we must say thanks without reservation and thank you for all the problems that are undoubtedly still in place. On behalf of the 13 indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, I would like to thank, of course, the government and the factions of government, because they had to make a positive decision for every decision, but the entire Hungarian Parliament, each former and present Member of Parliament, has provided nationality support over the last eight years, with which the 2014 grant of less than HUF 4 billion has increased to nearly 24 billion, i.e. six times in 2022. I would like to point out in particular that the affairs and proposals of indigenous nationalities in Hungary have been removed from the daily parliamentary political battles as a kind of unwritten house rule, and in the last eight years almost all the proposals submitted by the Hungarian nationalities have been adopted by Parliament essentially unanimously. Thank you so much for that, and may God keep your habit to the future. At the same time, these results and increases in support must be dealt with and evaluated in place with a full overview of the situation of nationalities in Hungary, in addition to the specific figures. On the one hand, who looks only at the figures and percentages of the very positive changes in national minority support in recent years, and knows only these, you see, it is only right that the nationalities living in Hungary have received a significant increase in support compared to the general increase in the budget in recent years, and in this respect they are undoubtedly right, and I can only confirm that. On the other hand, who sees it comprehensively, knows in its historical depth the situation of indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, the whole process, the content behind the numbers, where we started, the extent to which we have the duties of preserving our mother tongue, identity, traditions, transferring them to our children, or now giving them back much more, how far we are at the last hour, how harsh assimilation has been going for seven to eight decades, and it also knows that the last eight years have been enough to hold on and start with a new impetus on that path, to launch long-term programmes that we hope will ensure the survival of indigenous ethnicities living in Hungary and the survival of our nationality. Seven or eight decades of serious omissions, sins, consequences of which cannot be compensated by the good results of seven or eight years, and it takes several decades to do so. [[17 .30]] The consultation, mutual understanding of these two views and opinions, and the establishment of an appropriate consensus, have also featured the process of national consultation on the proposals for the 2019, 2020, 2022 and the current central fiscal law in 2024. Unfortunately, this continuous development of nationality, which marked the first eight years, was the beginning of the war in February 2022 and all its negative and damaging consequences, if you can say so: it not only stopped it, but also made it extremely fragile. Compared to 2022, the central fiscal law of 2023 already reduced HUF 1 billion for 13 nationalities by HUF 63.1 million. This decrease has already increased to HUF 2 billion to HUF 351.7 million by amending the budget law of 2023 at the beginning of this year. The proposed budget law of 2024 before us now contains a reduction in national minority support of HUF 3 billion 840.3 million compared to 2022. This planned reduction represents a 5% reduction in Roma ethnicity subsidies and a very tough one-quarter reduction in the other 12 nationalities. The distribution of this drastic reduction between national activities and territories, the resulting problems, their focus, directly on the central budget for 2024, is T/4181. However, I will talk more in my speech tomorrow about the legislative proposal No.2 and the related needs of nationality changes; in the meantime, thank you for listening to me. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2023-06-13-82	Thank you. I give the floor to Peter Banai, the Ministry of Finance. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-06-13-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond to some of the suggestions, perhaps for the budget as a whole, and also to some specific comments and opinions. In my view, the basic question among the key speakers in the debate on the budget is how to describe the budget that is being discussed. I've heard quite specific signs from the opposition benches: population skinning, austerity, budget of doing nothing, budget of preserving a livelihood crisis, budget reviving the future, dead end economic growth, these were the characteristics that we heard, compared to the fact that the government and the pro-government factions basically postulate this budget on the defence budget. Obviously, it is perfectly natural that the perspective can be different and we judge the economic and social situation differently, the challenges and the answers to the challenges, but I think it is appropriate, in addition to the facts, not to go away. Why should we call on the defence budget for next year's budget proposal? In the first place, our aim is to protect the workforce of 4.7 million people in order to protect the results so far. This is a result that we must do in order to protect. This budget proposal is about proposing only tax changes and pursuing a spending policy that can protect this result. There have been some serious comments on economic policy as a whole. We see that this additional one million employees after 2010 is, however, due to the economic policy that led to the expansion of the Hungarian economy exceeding the European Union average every year from 2013 onwards, even during the period of economic downturn. We remember that as an open economy, this was a serious achievement; we remember that in 2008-09 the situation was reversed: the shrinking of the Hungarian economy was significantly greater than the average of the European Union. For this reason, I think it was a serious challenge and it was a serious achievement that we were able to preserve this catch-up during the pandemic. Thus, the additional one million employees are also due to the fact that, while in 2010 on the basis of Eurostat data, the level of development of the Hungarian economy was around 66 per cent compared to the EU average, the last fact in 2022 was 77,7 per cent. So there was a substantial economic catch-up; this was accompanied by an increase in the number of employees. I think it is a result that must be protected; I heard nothing from opposition benches. Well, when there were economic problems elsewhere we look at statistical data, the number of employees and wages also decreased significantly, and I am going to say this separately, but I am going to mention that in 2020, when the European Union as a whole had an economic downturn, Hungary could not have avoided this either. We were not able to maintain the level of employment, but in Hungary, based on Eurostat data, was a real wage increase. So the first element we want to protect in next year's budget law is the high number of employees. The second is the overhead. I'm glad to hear that wasn't said at all. I recall that there was an explicit attack on the reduction of the rent from the opposition benches when the government introduced it, and it came up before the election of 22 to preserve it or not; in relation to this, Congresswoman Timea Szabó said that there was a set-off of overhead protection. Then let us look at the public EU data factually. According to the new regulations, Hungarian families pay the least of the citizens of the EU for gas, the second least for electricity. Yes, this requires budget expenditure, which is why next year's budget will retain the Rezségvédelmi Fund. Retirements. The number has often been mentioned: the government spends some HUF 6500 billion on pensions and pension-like expenses. Many words have been said, many opinions have been presented on pensions, so let me respond to one comment by Mr Tóth Bertalan. He said that it was an outrageous practice that if higher inflation figures appear during the year compared to the pension increase, then, on account of the additional increase, pensioners should practically advance the amount that they will receive later. Mr President, Mr President, you have proposed that a pension increase be made on the basis of facts instead. I would like to point out that if someone looks at the real value of pensions now, they see that this value is about 20 percent higher, this is the real value than it was in 2010. This practice, followed by the government from 2010, resulted in a 20-percent increase in real value, because, for example, in 2014 or in 15 when the inflation rate in the context of the reduction was in a negative range, but the value of pensions increased, the government did not take back the amount of increased pensions; and when there was an increase in inflation during the year compared to the increase made, an additional increase occurred. So my statement is that, compared to the proposal made by Member Bertalan Tóth, which would only change the inflation calculation, the practice that we have been following since 2010 is more favourable to pensioners, not to mention that, thanks to the economic growth mentioned, it may have been possible to pay a pension premium in the past, and we hope that it will be possible to do so again next year, just as next year's draft expects the full payment of the 13th month pension. The fourth element is the family-friendly system. A lot of people have mentioned family policy measures and I have to say that there was agreement among speakers that the strategic goal was to have the desired children; the strategic goal is to achieve a fertility rate above 2. So I am pleased that I felt that the speakers from the opposition benches made comments and suggestions with a positive intention. [[17.40]] In this intention, however, we must see that we are maintaining the most extensive family support system in Europe. There are elements, yes, that change. As a result, after the end of 2021, the renovation programme ended, I will answer Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's point of view as to why the amount of housing subsidies has decreased, but it is not true that the amount of all family policy programmes has decreased. Vice-President Dóra Dúró said that spending is falling. Well, let's take a look. In a public document, we summarized the appropriations for family policy expenditure. The amount of kindergarten or kindergarten funding is increasing; but for example, the family that took out a baby shower loan and had at least one child, regardless of the interest rate environment, should only pay back the share of the capital, or if two or more children are born, it should not. So there are family policy measures where central budget support increases even if the scheme is unchanged, because it responds and adapts to the change in the inflation environment. So the point is: I think that in all four areas there are significant results, which must be protected, in terms of jobs, pensions, family support, in European comparison, and in Hungarian economic policy comparison. We all know that the economic situation we are in is extremely difficult. In Germany, most analysts independent of the government expect an economic downturn this year. So this is the case when the government has to respond to this challenge. And let me say that I find it strange to hear comments about doing nothing and slipping off in this situation. We know that the country was in a worse situation when we couldn't finance ourselves before 2010. The measures at that time can be taken again. In this context, I think it is worth evaluating the proposals made by the government. In the second point, I will try to briefly address a number of additional budget expenditure areas. Education, health care, defense, I can tell you, it's always a hit. Minister Mihály Varga has actually explained the spending in various areas, but I do hear that there are people who are questioning nominal growth in education and health, but there is no doubt about the growth in real understanding. Let me say that, not only nominally, but also adjusted for inflation, compared to 2010 and 2023, education and health expenditure will also increase in real terms by 2024. So I repeat: 2010-2024 relations and 2023-24 relations, both nominally and in real terms, are increasing expenditure on education and health. In addition, education should also show that we are looking at the expenditure of teacher wage increases, yes, from EU funds, as the operational programme adopted by the European Commission itself includes that the first part of teachers' wage increases can also be financed from operational programme resources. After that, of course, we want to finance the salary increase of teachers entirely from national sources. In addition, we are looking at wage increases for those in vocational training, as well as a very significant operating funding surplus in the field of higher education, which can be used by individual institutions to raise wages or other types of expenditure at their own discretion. At the educational block, I have to argue with the comments that the aim of economic policy is to operate a sort of assembly plant in Hungary. Vice-President Dóra Dúró has said this, but he is a representative of the LMP and more have said so. Well, let's see how we've changed the funding of higher education institutions over the past few years. Next year's budget includes significant surpluses in funding higher education. In many cases, there is a very serious cooperation agreement between higher education institutions and economic organisations, whether it is the University of Győr or Miskolc, but I could also give you further examples. Our aim is precisely to keep economic growth on a sustainable path in the longer term by increasing domestic added value, and one area of this is to increase the funding of education, including higher education. This is also what the draft for next year is about. Health. I won't tell you the numbers, but let me put it this way: I agree that health is largely dependent not on how much money we use to run the health institution, but also on a healthy lifestyle. Vice-President Dóra Dúró said that he does not see any government strategy in this respect. Let me say, in fact, that the introduction of daily physical education, the promotion of youth sport, either through the corporate tax system or through the spread of healthier lifestyles in public catering, the regulation of ingredients or the public health product tax point were measures aimed at making healthier living and not entering the health care system. But once we get into the health care system, yes, the wages of those who work there must be increased. The wage-related costs of healthcare from 2010 to 2024 if the Parliament adopts the proposal will increase by 4.8-fold. I repeat: the health wage expenditure in 2010 will increase 4.8-fold by 2024. Please take a look at the doctors, the nurses, how their wages have increased, and then ask the nurses after the half-year wage increase. Next year's budget expects that wage increases for health workers other than nurses and doctors can continue next year. I feel strongly that Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader mentioned the life expectancy at the age of 65 as a negative, where the Hungarian indicator decreased. Yes, let us look at the statistics of the European Union and see why what Mr. Group leader said is the reason. On the one hand, there has been a trend in recent years: the number of healthy years has increased. Thus, not only life expectancy, but also the number of healthy years of people reaching retirement age has also increased. What's stopping this? The Covid. The reason is that this was said by Congressman Gyurcsány, because I remember that the most important tool against Covid, the vaccine, was raised from the benches on the left. [[Noise in DK's ranks. Lot. Erzsébet Németh: That is not true, Mr. Secretary of State. László Varju: This is a total lie!]] So I think... if I'm wrong, I'm sorry... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President! , if I'm wrong [[Constant interruptions. The president keeps ringing.]] If I am wrong, they will have the opportunity to give the Members of Parliament their opinion according to the rules, but I recall that there was an atmosphere between Parliament's walls against Eastern vaccines. I think it's worth putting this on the table, and when we're looking for responsibility, we're looking at who's responsible and to what extent for the fact that, yes, some people at Covid have unfortunately died. It's extremely painful to lose every single life. Defense. I have to clarify Congressman Tamás Mellar. I wish we were in a position to increase defence spending by up to 55 percent, as the congressman said. Defence spending is increasing by nearly 30 percent. With this, the total amount of defence expenditure will be above 2 percent. I think that it is important not only as a NATO Member State to achieve this level, but also, by talking about the defence budget, this includes physical protection. Public sector wage increases. Mr Lajos Löcsei and Mrs Timea Szabó said that they do not see the items of the wage increase. Well, nearly HUF 830 billion is the public-sector wage increase surplus that is included in the budget bill of 2024 before you compared to 2023. This includes wage increases in the said education sector, health wage increases, law enforcement, defence and wage increases for some government officials. Of course, we cannot now, but I would rather say that unfortunately we cannot now carry out wage increases in all sectors, but this wage increase is a very significant wage increase, and therefore the average wage increase for the public sector as a whole is above the planned level of inflation next year. I repeat, for some people there is a significant wage increase that is much higher than inflation, and for some, this is not yet possible in the year 2024. It is false to claim that next year's budget for the development of irrigation is not included. We are dealing with such items in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior or the Ministry of Agriculture, and we are also counting on the fact that we will receive each euro cent from the budget of the European Union and we would also like to devote resources to the development of irrigation from the so-called Restoration Fund in 2024. [[17.50]] Thank you for bringing this up, as many have mentioned the drought on the historical scale. This is one of the reasons why inflation in Hungary was particularly higher than the EU average in food products. The debt service is the next area. Several raised the increase in debt service expenditure. Yes, I will be talking about inflation, but in parallel with the increase in inflation, interest expenditure is also increasing, which is why I think it is important that we keep the debt reduction rate that has been the government again since 2021 and which has shown before the pandemic that the debt ratio in Europe has decreased in a unique way every year after 2011. I therefore argue with the findings that there would be no strategy, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that he did not see the debt strategy. The debt strategy is very clear: it is laid down in the Fundamental Law, the debt ratio must be reduced, a budget should be submitted only to Parliament and passed by Parliament, which will result in a reduction in the rate. What I can tell you is that the exception was the increase in the debt ratio due to the pandemic, and, by definition, we not only want to reduce the debt ratio, but also make the financing structure healthy. In 2010, there were about 2-3 percent of the population's funding, today it is 20 percent. Thus, debt financing costs are increasing, but we pay a significant part of it to domestic financiers, to families, which will either result in additional consumption or will result in savings. At the same time as inflation rises, debt services are increasing not only in Hungary, but not only in Hungary. The return of the US ten-year sovereign debt increased from 1.5 percent before the war to 3.7 percent at present, from 1.7 percent in Poland, I repeat, the return of ten-year sovereign debt increased to 5.9 percent, so there is a global, visible increase in return, which is indeed in increasing debt service expenditure. I repeat: that is why it is important to keep the debt reduction requirement in mind when drafting each budget proposal. I would like to move on to the third area, as regards some areas of economic policy. Inflation. I've heard the expression "Orbán inflation" several times. Let me say again factually that I could not have heard this indicator in 2014-15 and we could not have seen European data. Again, the level of consumer prices has decreased in these years, and I have not heard this indicator, and many have even criticised the introduction of official prices and the implementation of the reduction in overhead costs. What is the result of this inflation? I think it is talkative to bring the European Commission's public documents before you. I see in this that the average level of inflation in the European Union has increased from 2020 to 21 and then has increased from 21 to 22 more than three times. [[István Hollik: Everywhere!]] In all countries inflation has increased. The different levels of rise in each country, the different components, are natural. We also know the Hungarian reasons: inflation is essentially linked to an increase in energy prices, Hungary is a low-energy country, and the current account is significantly affected, so the change in energy prices affects not only the current balance of payments, but also the budgetary balance through budgetary support, as well as the exchange rate. Thus, the change in energy prices also affected the exchange rate, which, as appropriate, is again reflected in inflation. It was about the historical drought, but the point is that when I look around Europe, I see that last year, for example, there was higher inflation in the Baltic countries. If I present the European Commission's public analysis and public document, then I see that next year the Commission itself is likely to have less inflation than the government. [[István Hollik: That's right!]] and the European Commission itself says that it believes that inflation will be higher than in Hungary, for example, in Bulgaria or Romania, in Poland or in Slovakia. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: And now?!]] I therefore believe that it is worth interpreting the issue of inflation in this context, and that we also need to see what measures the government has taken to break down inflation. I will not repeat this, there have been a lot of words about this, the reduction of the overhead is a priority item, but whether it is on-line price monitoring or mandatory action, it is all for the purpose of seeing one-digit inflation by the end of the year, during the last period of the year, and if we achieve this, I think that the six percent inflation rate for next year can also be achieved. As far as growth is concerned, the 4% increase has been questioned by many. I accept that it is possible to argue about the range of economic expansion, but let me say again factually that the European Commission, with which we have many debates, expects that in 2024 the expansion of the Hungarian economy will be substantially higher than the EU average. The Commission itself, therefore, expects that the real convergence that we have seen in recent years can characterize Hungary in 2024. What's the growth coming from? On the one hand, thank God, there is a high number of employees, a tight labour market, and we expect that, together with the decline in inflation, the consumption of the population will also return to the same range as before, so consumption will also drag the expansion of the Hungarian economy. The second element, investment, will also drag on the expansion of the Hungarian economy. Why? Because in the case of public investment, I do have a take back, in order to reduce inflation and to preserve budgetary stability, but the volume of private investment will also be very significant in 2024. After 2020, the reported public private sector large investment amounts to 14 per cent of the GPD. In the convergence programme, these have been presented by the government and counted. I repeat: the investments notified since the beginning of 2020 are above 14 per cent. And the third element is net exports, which can also lead to economic expansion. Within this expansion, the automotive industry, including electromobility, battery factories, was again mentioned. I would recommend to everyone that we do not go without saying that the automotive industry accounts for about 25 percent of the Hungarian manufacturing industry. So there are a lot of people working in these sectors, in this sector, in these factories, I think that Hungary should join electromobility in order to maintain a high number of employees. So if we want to maintain economic growth, we should also take advantage of this opportunity, of course, in addition to respecting all environmental rules, and I also agree that the aim is not simply to bring new investments to Hungary, but to bring more and more investments into Hungary, but to have more domestic added value, so where more small and medium-sized enterprises can join the operation of the company. With regard to some specific proposals on economic policy, the most specific proposal was formulated by Mr Bertalan Tóth and Mr Zoltán Vajda, who proposed that 20 percent of personal income tax should be left in the municipalities on the one hand, that consumption tax should be reduced, that the low income tax should be exempt, and that was an element that included a tax increase: 15% of the corporate tax rate was proposed outside small and medium-sized enterprises, and that there was also the issue of separate taxes. I have made an impromptu calculation, a loss of a thousand billion balances, as the honourable Members have said. Member Erik Bánki said that you should not accept criticism from those you would never turn to for advice. We haven't asked for advice yet, but I think that it may not be good for the honourable Parliament to take this advice to heart. Therefore, the Council, the specific proposal from the lines of the MSZP, according to my calculations, would either result in a very significant increase in budget deficits or would require further improvement of the balance that Members did not mention. And finally, I would like to tell you how, on the Government's proposal, the Honourable Parliament constitutes the budget, and how seriously this budget is taken seriously by the government. It has also been said that a budget is changed 60-80 times, and in particular this line of numbers has been made among the keynote speeches. I don't remember such modifications from the past period. So, on the one hand, it is strange to be honest that, after all these years, a distinction must be made between the parliamentary amendment to the budget adopted by Parliament and the government's implementation of the budget. [[18.00]] I think that when the lead speakers mentioned 60-80 amendments, they probably thought that, with the mandate given by the Parliament, the government had transferred reserves; they thought, for example, that we had made a transfer from the Rehabilitation Fund to the municipalities, and that, let's say, we had made a transfer from the Rehabilitation Fund to health institutions. This is a redeployment, the implementation of the budget adopted by the Parliament. This is not a modification of the budget, the amendment of the budget has been brought to Parliament by the government. Many people have given the example of the emergency decree that the government created last year, which, in its unchanged form, was spread by the government enough. I don't think it's a mistake to have to change last year's budget. If it is a mistake, the European Commission itself has made a huge mistake. Let us look at the European Commission's spring forecast last year, its autumn forecast, and there is a huge difference between the two. So I repeat: the budget adopted by the Parliament is being implemented, which is being discussed by this House, and I repeat, which is finally accepted by the Parliament. It is especially peculiar that we are discussing emergency regulation here, between the walls of the Parliament, when the government did not create an emergency decree from the year 2024, but created a bill. What I can promise you is that if you look at the practice of the previous years, the government will implement the budget adopted by Parliament within the limits adopted by Parliament. If this is to be achieved in 2024 as we saw in the previous period, I trust that we will be able to achieve the final goals set by the Parliament, and the results that we will hopefully be able to maintain until this year's completion, which we have achieved and which we can preserve, will be ours in 2024. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Louis Kósa, the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-13-85	Mr. President. Dear House, If we have listened to the key speeches of opposition, we can say one thing: the speakers did not insist on reality; I would like to present this through an example. In addition to the fact that the budget keynote speech doesn't make any sense, which takes out one of the thousands of appropriations from here, one from there, and compares them because the budget is not exactly about that, but about the whole operation of the country, but here more people have said that the government is not only family-friendly, it is an enemy of families, and there is no more family-swelling government in Europe. One data was collected: 10-13 years ago, the family allowance remained unchanged. But if you look at the context, fellow Members, it is a fact that Hungary spends the most of the EU countries on family protection and family support in proportion to GDP; okay, not through the family allowance, but through a thousand other instruments, but the result is that the support of families is above 6 per cent of GDP, it was HUF 3300 billion, and we are not going back on this. I'm only saying this because politics is different, because we don't give it through family allowances, but through one and the least effective method in terms of how it works anyway, but through countless other means. It's just, if someone's looking at this from the outside, they're saying, oh, my God, there's a data here, there's really a family allowance that's been unchanged for 12 years, we're really lying, we're just skinning families. That's not true. There are so many slippings and lies that can be heard very rarely, as we have heard from the opposition in the Hungarian Parliament, while this is the most family-friendly government of the European Union, and we do not want to change that, and we want to preserve our first place. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-86	Thank you. For a two-minute comment, I give the floor to László Varju, from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-87	Mr. President. Thank you very much. If you feel anything back, Mr Secretary, then you will also feel what I am saying now, continuing with what my fellow Member Kósa started. Your claim about my anti-vaccination is as true as I claim that you are solely responsible for stealing 350 billion forints through the ventilator, and 45,000 people died in this country. Do you understand? ! Compare these two, your statement is so true, Mr. Secretary of State, and then speak next time. I would add that what you have said here in some thoughts about the expansion of the Hungarian economy and the preservation of employment is so much truth... you forget to add again, Mr Secretary of State, that from London to Paris, through Germany, there are 600,000 people, and now they are looking for another 500,000 people. People are being brought here from the Philippines, Vietnam and Mongolia, because they let people leave, by the way, and they bring in technology that, by the way, is the solution to a country that is specifically trapped: medium development, medium income, which is all a lie in terms of being a future builder. Is that why another third thought is to be able to respond to the fact that you're talking about a reduction in the costs? This is a lie of responsibility when it comes to the fact that the contract should not have been concluded at the most expensive moment at the most expensive price, and then it would not have been necessary for the public budget to grant a small group of people, a part of them, while businesses would have paid seven times what they would otherwise have had to pay. Thank you.
u2023-06-13-88	Thank you. I give the floor to Peter Banai, the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, We fully agree that every life we lost in connection with Covid is a huge loss, but let me confirm that in 2021, I believe, the Democratic Coalition started collecting signatures for unauthorized vaccines in Europe. [[László Varju intervenes. Lot. Erzsébet Németh: With the Chinese, which the manufacturer himself did not recommend over 65 years of age!]] Thank you very much for your confirmation. [[István Hollik intervenes.]] Exactly, factually, we remember that situation [[István Hollik: That's right!]] How many people died because there was no vaccine. We remember exactly the situation of waiting for vaccines, and we remember precisely the situation that, in this situation, the government wanted vaccines from all channels in order to protect lives. By the way, we are talking about vaccines that are now being used around the world in retrospect. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Only the European Union has not allowed it, don't forget that, Mr Secretary of State.]] That is what I have referred to, and thank you very much for the confirmation that the Democratic Coalition has indeed organised a collection of signatures against Covid vaccines. The other thing is the proportion of people living abroad. As a European Union country, the four freedoms provide that workers are free to go abroad to EU countries. Let me say to Congressman that the proportion of people living abroad compared to the population is 7,4 percent in Hungary, according to a 2020 statistics, in Romania, which is mentioned so many times, 20.7 percent in Slovakia, 7.7% in the Baltic countries and 15 percent in the Baltic countries. So when you say that the government has driven people away from Hungary, I see that European statistics do not support this. Yes, many people make use of the freedom to work, but we are working either through the system of family support or by keeping jobs and focusing on wage growth, so that as many families as possible think that it is worth living in Hungary; this is, in my view, an essential element of our economic policy. We are working, I repeat, to protect the results in 2024, to ensure real wage growth in 2024 as well as in 2024, and to describe Hungary as well as the broad system of family support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Lajos Kósa, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-91	Mr. President. Dear House, The budget for defence and defence is the budget of 2024; the defence chapter has a prominent role to play in this, and I would like to talk about it. [[18.10]] We know that Hungary's defence is based on three pillars. One is our own ability to defend ourselves. The other is that we are part of a defense alliance that is undoubtedly the most powerful military defense alliance in the world. The third is to conduct a foreign policy that, by means of foreign policy, handles disputes, conflicts, problems that, if appropriate, would lead to war, and we are completely consciously and consistently left out of the wars and conflicts in which Hungary was otherwise tried several times. We don't remember it anymore, but remember, in the South Slavic War, the United States specifically requested that Hungary also be allowed to conduct military operations against Serbian territories. Hungary is isolated from this. So our position on peace is not a recent fad, but it has always been our position to try to deal with our conflicts through political, foreign policy instruments. It was a long time ago, but the Hungarian government was among the first to conclude a peace and friendship agreement with the Ukrainian government, which, by the way, provided the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia with the language, the rights necessary for schools, community building and cultural autonomy. The other issue is that the Ukrainians did not comply. By the way, this was initiated by the Antall government in the first cycle. So this policy is not new. But let's look at what kind of fiscal policy comes from the first ability, which is to defend ourselves, and from the second, our membership of NATO. I'll start with NATO. NATO has an agreed, non-binding, but highly recommended indicator for operation and entry in order for each NATO country to spend 2% on its own defence in proportion to its GDP. When we joined NATO, that ratio didn't reach 1 percent. In 2010, this was 1.2 percent, so far below NATO expectations, which would be necessary for our security, because if in an alliance we expect the others to come to Hungary's aid in trouble, then the Alliance can calmly expect us to do the duties and steps that they require of us. But this growth was also apparent. You may remember the Prime Minister who said that there are hundreds of budget tricks you don't need to know about. [[László Varju: 96 was last year! 96!]] László Varju, sure! I'm sure László Varju remembers the defining and historical moments when the gang leader told his accomplices that everyone was deceived, lied, stolen in the morning, night and night. Now, what was the budget trick back then? In the otherwise growing, so-called service pension scheme, pension payments for retired persons who had retired from military service with a long-term discount were included in a military box, thus boosting military expenditure. I don't have to tell you how much pensioning for military pensioners strengthens the country's ability to defend itself. At the same time, however, the Socialist Government, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, has also implemented a program of decommissioning forces from 2004, compared to which the Trianon Peace Act is an arms program. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] They took down our entire armoured mobile artillery capabilities, sold all the Gvozdikas, dismantled all the Acacias, left a D-20 tarack, which was actually obsolete when it was introduced. In essence, Hungary's armoured ability has ceased, and the number of defences has been reduced to such an extent, because they said that we do not need a large army of troops, we have eliminated the army, we said that we need a professional army instead, and I can safely say that volunteers, tens of thousands of trained volunteers are the ones to whom we have to turn. The result was that in 2010 Hungary had 17 trained volunteers. We were faced with an army in a tragic state, that is to say, we were trying to see how Hungary should be protected then. The jokes among football fans were that in a united Újpest-Fradi B-center versus Hungarian army, we should bet on Újpest-B-center, because the conditions were so tragic. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] I'm gonna add, not everyone got it wrong. Let us remember that Minister Veres's good friend, business partner, was even arrested for abuse. He was the one with the incurrency... [[László Varju: Miklós Simon!]] It's not Simon, it's still going to trial. [[Dr. László Pósán: Gábor Simon!]] He was vice president of the Socialist Party, but Simon was held responsible for a completely different crime. I know it's hard to keep in mind, my dear fellow Member Varju, the various political affairs of socialist criminals [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: The exchange rate of the forint was well arranged!]] But we'll help you. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] In any case, it was not even a question from 2010 that the state of the Hungarian Defence Office should be corrected from among the many problems. Today, it can be said that what Viktor Orbán undertook in Wales in 2017, we remember that the famous NATO summit was that they confirmed that 2 percent of defence spending should be achieved, with this budget. That means it's a historic moment. There have been some historical moments. It was also a historic moment when, under the leadership of the civilian government, Hungary was excluded from the excessive deficit procedure, if we remember what we were involved in all the time from our entry into the socialist governments, it was only then that it was not so important to the Commissioner, and there was no need to be so careful about the budget of the European Union, and that, no, there was no speech, fortunately, and I am pleased that Hungary is beyond that. And now, if we cross this 4 percent with the 1716 billion-dollar defence expenditure budget in this budget, we have taken another big step to ensure Hungary's protection. This is not a single step, nor is it exclusive, but one of the pillars is there. The Hungarian Army's military development programme and its implementation will help us to guarantee the security of Hungary in some way. I add, because this is very important again, let us not forget that from 2004 onwards not only the Hungarian Defence Forces have been dismantled, but the entire Hungarian defence industry. By 2010, we got to the point that only the Puskás Works produced a rubber bullet gun in Hungary. That was the war industry. Weapon with rubber bullets... [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks, among them: Bitter Works!]] The Bitter Works, sorry, the Bitter Works. Of course, depending on the events in 2006, it is known that the socialists felt strong affection for the rubber projectile, and it may be understandable that this is the only way that this ability has survived, but we know that this is not good for anything. Now, the policy of the Orbán governments has been trying to rebuild the defence industry from the start. It's hard to imagine a defence capability without a defence industry. It is a difficult road, and we are now on the road that the Hungarian defence industry has set its foot in Hungary and in the neighbouring countries, from the supply of small arms and ammunition to the production of mortars and aircraft production. That's a good thing to say. When was the last time Hungary had an interest, I mean, in the military industry, in capital linked to Hungary at all? Rheinmetall cooperates with us, and in fact manufactures a military armored transport vehicle in Zalaegerszeg, which is mistakenly described as a tank, but from this point of view it is completely secondary, because at one time the Hungarian Defence Forces had such a capacity. If anyone is watching and understanding military equipment, they can see that the tools, such as the BMP 1, 2 that the socialists have decommissioned, are fighting them in a professional way in the Ukrainian war, after due modernisation on both sides. So I also think it is very important that this defence industrial development is above the military development programme and this HUF 1716 billion, which also provides an appropriation of HUF 105 billion to enable us to go forward in a planned way. [[18.20]] I have to say, unfortunately, that this must be said, but in times like these, when the security of Hungary is actually threatened, when the news is saying that Hungary is threatened with a key infrastructure, then in order to take us seriously, whether in NATO or in our external relations, we are forced to spend money on it, no matter how difficult the budgetary situation, no matter how difficult it is to state what other areas there are -- how good it would be if we didn't have to spend the money on weapons, but on other areas. But it's an expense that's necessary, without which all our other expenses will be compromised or rendered meaningless. And we are increasingly looking more and more desperately at how ineffective what we are saying is that we need a ceasefire, we need peace; and nothing, but there is no point in the European Union financing weapons and arms from the so-called Peace Fund, with which only one thing can be achieved, that the killing is going on completely hopelessly, and that we are creating a situation with this whole policy in which we can safely say that this war will not be a winner, but that the European Union will be one of the biggest losers of this war, it can already be covered. In this situation, I believe that the decision of the Hungarian Government to achieve the 2 percent expenditure on defence expenditure in 2024 is a key issue. I might add, we always say it's still the beginning of a road. After all, we have developed the force, we have acquired a lot of modern equipment, but we know that this war shows how much this war has changed in a year and a half in war thinking, strategic and combat-fighting thinking; we see that the drones have appreciated their role; we see the key roles of combat procedures, training, air force, air defense; so it is fortunate that this appropriation is not rigid. Moreover, in this context, it should be emphasised that the degree of freedom to use this budget allocation should be given to the government, which makes us capable of responding. We know what it looks like. Okay, the Panzerhaubitze 2000 self-propelled gun is a very modern tool, very expensive, very modern, relatively complicated to operate, as in general German vehicles; but it has very precise service regulations, there are procedures, which, by the way, if they don't comply, will turn the whole thing into junk in seconds. But we know that we ordered it to be delivered in two years, two years. The Germans can't make it faster. While we see that the strategic procedures for the application of Panzerhaubitze may have already made this instrument obsolete. He doesn't even show up yet because we see how drones in the Russian-Ukrainian war form the basis for defense against these devices. So we must be flexible, we must adapt to the conditions. This war is the best example and proof that rigid procurement, rigid construction, rigid combat procedures, combat and military behaviour often fail to produce results. That is why it is likely that, in implementing this use, this amount, too, the flexibility should, of course, be given to the government, which is not a change in the budget, but a framework for implementation, in which we can use it flexibly. Fortunately, the market situation is such that it is not difficult to use them flexibly now, because there is such a demand on the market that if someone withdraws an order, five or ten of them will jump on it immediately. This flexibility can be found in the proposal, and I therefore believe that the Hungarian Budget Act 2024 and its chapter on the Ministry of Defence should be fully supported. What can be more important to us than the security of the Hungarian people, and guaranteeing the security of Hungary by the means that we have at our disposal? That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-13-92	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to László Varju, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-13-93	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, It is very tempting to reply to my colleague Kósa, because there is a lot of contradictions in what he has said, but I would only take one, and I will count, and I will count, but this 2 percent will not come out by 2024. It's true by 2023, but by 2024 we don't have a 2% percentage, but you'll be able to do this calculation, and then you'll be able to prove again how important it really is to you. Just because we collect the problems that come from this budget, we really have to say that this is the budget for inflation in Orbán. I could say, Mr Secretary of State, you just admitted it, and you have this confession of how much you must use in this otherwise truly uncertain situation the methods in which you are trying to avoid the budgetary amendment with budgetary tricks; right, when you mention it here with my fellow Members, and we mention that the adoption of the early budget goes hand in hand with the possibility that you will be able to redeploy anything at any time and use any remnants. In English: the government does what it wants to do with the budget, which is the same as what my fellow Member Gyurcsány said, and that this budget has lost its character so that it can be debated in substance. After all, what we accept the day after tomorrow is otherwise published in the Hungarian Gazette following the government meeting that it is not so. From now on, your time is worth as much as and as often as it will be modified. That is why, indeed, it is a very tired budget, after a long and burdensome period, far from reflecting the value choice that I and my fellow Members represent; so indeed Parliament has lost its legislative character. And there are many more arguments that we could make, but not generally, but I would like to give you a few specific points in this respect. One of the fundamental problems that you have committed is that the inflationary monster has been brought to life. Therefore, millions of people, tens of millions of people, have to pay a huge price for it; it will have huge consequences for all of us. But you are willing to ignore the fact that this is quite different for the average pensioner than HUF 138 thousand, and it is quite different for the owners who take out billions of forints or ten billion dividends, who are not many, but we can even name them by name. And the 25 percent inflation that affects them has a very different effect, even if it damages them in that sense. This depreciation, which appears in HUF, appears in interest rates, appears in dollar and euro loans, appears in exchange rates, this is what you have brought to life, and unfortunately I see that you are unable to take a meaningful step against inflation. Not even because they have another idea of reducing inflation, which is also emphasised today by the Secretary of State, Minister, in his exposé, and this is how growth nutrition can be strengthened. And in the meantime, while I'm rooting for you to solve this dilemma, there are no signs of that at the moment. [[18.30]] After all, in itself... and then again I refer to what the Secretary of State has just said and referred to the excellent results of investments and growth in the European context, let us add quickly, as a result of which the overheating on which the inflation environment, which has an international impact, was clinging to and making Hungarian inflation unique, i.e. caused hyperinflationary in the food sector and caused 25 per cent inflation. In general, this year it will be approaching or exceeding 20%, no matter how much I am rooting for it not to be so. I'm not rooting for you, I'm rooting for the families who are facing prices that are so impossible that if they go into any store, you will experience them. That is why we say that this is the inflation in Orbán that you have caused. This growth drive, this overheating created this fundamental condition, and the Secretary of State forgot to mention it, while a series of conferences, the State Audit Office, the Budget Council, the European Commission, the Parliament's opposition benches, all experts have drawn attention to this in the past period. But you've decided that everyone who comes across the freeway is crazy. That's what they called it. They didn't use a freeway comparison. They said they had to pass in a corner. And this preemption came with a result. This preemption was applied by György Matolcsy, which Mihály Varga used to prevent in the corner, confirmed that he would be happy to use this technique, but who has a license, I might say, has experience of steering, sooner or later the problem is that there are consequences. Well, that's what people get for now. It's just too high a price in itself, millions of people, the consequences of millions of families there, compared to having and using all the means to remain in power. [[Sic!]] But from this point of view, I think that you can't basically solve this dilemma, and in fact, as your central bank president said, you're simultaneously pushing the brakes and pushing the gas at the same time. One owner, one leg is the Hungarian National Bank and the other is the Ministry of Finance. One raises interest to 18 percent of the banks and the other shares the preferential loan to the companies who prefer it. By the way, the conditions of everything have been created by the Hungarian National Bank in recent years, with an extra deposit of HUF 11 000 billion and money creation. That's why the Secretary of State just said there was no need for you to amend the budget, only to redeploy it, but it was done 95 times, and that means that the budget was amended every four days last year. So much for the design skills you've been producing here. What's the consequence? Falling retail, falling industrial production, falling spirals of the entire economy, which is not easy to stop, I am willing to accept, but the fact that you should come up with new ideas in this is quite certain, and this budget does not support it; it is not so much that it can be seen now. Therefore, when you are not aware of the data in 2022, there is no closure, without the data in 2023, you are planning and trying to accept 2024, while, Mr. Secretary of State, you know much better than I that the first three months of data should already be able to think about when this year's budget will be formally amended, because revenue is significantly behind and spending is already skyrocketing. 80% of their existing opportunities have already been lived up to now, and we are still at the beginning and mid-June. So you're going to have to redesign 2023, and you're not going to be able to solve that. Overall, when I say that there are consequences, and I would like to mention here, in the final thought of my first comment, that when you have to expect an interest burden of HUF 3144 billion already in 2024, which is more than 4 percent of GDP when it appears, it is a brutal burden that can lead to a debt trap. Therefore, the idea of 4 percent economic growth in itself only works if the European Union could use HUF 3000 billion of its resources. But, Mr Secretary of State, over the last two years, they have not been able to reach a fair agreement with the European Union. These resources have been available to Hungary for the Hungarian economy since then, but they have not been able to solve them, no matter what you should have done for this reason. This will have very serious consequences, and I would like to talk about the details of this in my next comment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-06-13-94	Thank you. I give the floor to István Hollik of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-13-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Before I get to the point, I must respond to what has been said before me, partly to Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, and partly to László Varju, who repeated the sentences of his boss in other words. As I understand it, the president and group leader of the Democratic Coalition, the leader of the left-wing leadership, basically expressed two concrete criticisms about the 2024 budget. One criticism was that the government is not reliable when it comes to budget planning. He was able to support all this by saying that there was a need to amend the budget. I would add that, by the way, here at the Parliament, and I would add that all of this happened when a Covid epidemic occurred in Hungary, thus creating a whole new situation, and, on the other hand, when a war broke out next door, and by the way, all this and the failed sanctions in Brussels caused an energy crisis. But in the previous period, all the commitments promised by the government in the budget were also held, which clearly does not match the experience we saw before 2010. Because, honourable Member, you are criticising the Hungarian government's budgetary policy from the point of view of reliability at a time when you were not able to keep the numbers you wrote in the period 2002-2010. [[László Varju: Yes, that's right, I'm criticizing it!]] So between 2002 and 2010, you have written down various budget figures for sovereign debt, general government deficit, government deficit, economic growth, and you have never been able to keep them. So I think that it is worth accepting criticism from the reliability of those who themselves have been reliable in the area of budget planning and implementation. Well, if someone wasn't, you certainly weren't. [[18.40]] When it comes to reliability, honourable Member, I think that the markets are judging this, which do not express a political opinion, but with their own invested capital, they are judging a country's budget, the reliability of an economy, we can see that sovereign debt has been overstated for years. [[László Varju: 7 percent interest!]] There are multiple over-rescriptions of these sovereign debt. Thus, market investors consider the Hungarian economy to be reliable and consider the Hungarian budget to be reliable, which is why they are investing in its financing. [[László Varju: 18 percent interest rate!]] And therefore, honourable Member, I say this addressed to your boss. [[László Varju: I am not a postman!]] you were able to do that economic feat, not only that you didn't keep the numbers you wrote yourself, but you were able to do the economic feat that, when it was an economic peace period in Europe before 2008, there were times like this, as your boss said, when the world economy was in abundance. [[László Varju: For the last ten years!]] So there was money and the European economy went well, in 2007 they were able to bring together 1.1 percent economic growth thanks to your economic policy. Do you know how much the average economic growth of the European Union was in 2007? 3.1 percent. So, with the world economy swimming in wealth, as Ferenc Gyurcsány said, you were unable to keep the budget deficit, so you overspended, yet the economy has shown a lower performance than the EU average. So at a time when everything was okay in the European economy [[László Varju: It's not true!]] [[László Varju: It's not true!]] And you have governed, you have been responsible for the budget and economic policy, Hungary has not approached the European Union, but has moved away from it. The European Union, therefore the richer countries, was able to develop faster than Hungary. That's your performance. (László Varju: It's not true!) Look at the economic numbers, look at them, Congressman. When you say it is not true, look at how much economic growth Hungary has in 2007! [[László Varju: It's not true!]] Take a look. 1.1 percent; the EU average is 3.1. So we can argue facts from me, but I don't think it's worth it. [[László Varju: No one has ever spoken of an abundance of money!]] So when you have been able to achieve such economic performance, I think that we do not have to accept reliability criticisms from you and from you. By the way, I would suggest that next year you are, I am sorry, and in a year and a half, we should return to it in 2025, and I will remind the Member that the Hungarian Government was able to keep the targets set in the budget for the 2024 budget and then talk about reliability. Another criticism of the left was that Ferenc Gyurcsány said that it was not enough when we said that we had to defend the results that we had achieved so far. So he says that the defense budget in this situation is low. Now I overlook the fact that, if we look at your comrades across Western Europe, where they bear the responsibility of government, by the way, what economic policy they have, what kind of budget they can plan in this difficult, critical, war-stricken situation, then I think that they would already consider this criticism on this basis. But what I am saying is that it is worth seeing is that when there was trouble, which you caused before 2010, what budget you were able to put together, that you were at least able to defend the results achieved. I say that I wish they could have, but they weren't, because in a crisis, like we are now, the difference is that we didn't come here because of us, but because of the misguided sanctions in Brussels and the war in our neighbourhood, and before 2010, because of your bad economic policy, you reacted by eliminating all previous achievements. You took away the 13th month's pension, you took a month's wages from the teachers, you wanted to introduce hospital allowances and a visitation fee, you closed schools. They have made such an economic policy that you have been able to achieve in eight years that 200,000 fewer people worked in Hungary than in 2002. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Now 600,000 are gone!]] That's what's up against the fact that there's a million more people working today. So when it comes to protecting the acquis or protecting the defence budget, I also think that we do not necessarily accept criticism from you about this. [[László Varju: You must accept it! There's nothing else!]] Because when you handled the crisis, not only did you not keep the acquis, but you put everything on families and businesses. That is why it was absolutely outrageous when Ferenc Gyurcsány said that the tax policy of the current Hungarian government, Fidesz-KDNP, is a tribute to people. [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh: That's right!]] Well, you weren't under the personal income tax. [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh: No! Laszlo Varju: No!]] Thirty-six percent with a 19-percent tax rate? Yes, you can. It was during your time! [[László Varju: 27 percent VAT!]] And you're the ones who stopped the family tax relief, the tax relief for children, and you're the ones who cut it off. [[Laszlo Varju: Bread! To the stroller!]] We were not the ones who raised corporate tax as high as we did in your day; we reduced corporate tax. So the fact is that today, in Hungary, the tax burden is much lower for both businesses and families than at your time. That was my brief reflection on your comments, and now I would like to get to what I originally wanted to say. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe and Hungary, as I have already said, have been in a difficult situation since the crisis caused by the corona virus and then the Russian-Ukrainian war. We didn't get ourselves into this difficult situation, we're not in a crisis because of government policy, we're in a crisis because of a Covid attack earlier, and now there's a war going on next door. It is enough to look at the European Union's combined economic indicators, i.e. the economic indicators of all European countries, or to look at the GDP figures of the leading Western countries, to recognise the incorrect responses to Covid, and then the pro-war position in Europe, as well as the wrong sanctions, will bring the European economy to its knees. In addition, the situation is not only economically difficult, perhaps even more frightening, that there is a serious security risk to the world in our neighbor's war, and this risk is most likely in the neighbourhood, so perhaps this war risk may look different here, in an ocean away from us, perhaps there are other views. So it is no exaggeration to say that we are facing a threat to the Third World War, that every tiny step is important, and that it matters a lot how we stand to the obstacles that arise, and what our perspective is. It is therefore no coincidence that he wished to establish a budget for the protection criticised by the left-wing government and submitted it to the Parliament. This is of great importance, since it highlights perhaps our two most important intentions. The policy in this budget sets clear goals in the language of numbers: on the one hand, that we want to continue to stay out of this war and take a pro-peace position, and we want to do everything we can to ensure that Hungary's security is guaranteed in the long term; on the other hand, the other hand, its aim is to protect the results for which we have fought together with the Hungarian people over the past 12 years. The Ministry of Finance guarantees not only Hungary's financial security and stability through the defence budget, but also makes it possible to make positive changes to the European economic environment. [[18.50]] The necessary, but not sufficient, condition for stability is to guarantee national financial stability; accordingly, the budget for the year 24 is expected to reduce public debt as defined in the Fundamental Law, with a deficit of 2.9 per cent and, moreover, to increase GDP by much more than economic growth in Europe by 4 per cent. In addition, it can be said that in planning, the government, I think, was responsible but careful, because it expects one-digit, six percent inflation next year, and does so with a much more favourable inflation rate of 4%. We hope that the National Bank will be right in this regard. All this, therefore, is that stable growth will be achieved in an absolute sustainable manner with falling public debt. So I think that this budget is basically responding well to the challenges ahead and protecting the main achievements that we have achieved over the past 12 years. I would like to talk about two more things in particular; one is the reduction of the rent, one is an important result that we are protecting, even if the sanctions in Brussels that have failed have caused an energy crisis; the other is the issue of defence. I'd like to start by cutting the rent. If we stick to the numbers, it is clear that the budget of 2024 will continue to retain the Rezségvédelmi Fund, which will contribute more than HUF 1360 billion to enabling families, companies and municipalities to obtain energy cheaply. The budget envisages HUF 917 billion for the protection of households, almost HUF 208 billion for the compensation of government-led budget bodies, HUF 83 billion for the compensation of municipalities and HUF 66 billion for the help of churches. State-owned companies will receive HUF 50 billion and the private sector will receive HUF 37.5 billion in subsidies in the framework of public security. So these figures clearly show that the government is determined to do so, and in this Fidesz and KDNP will support the government to keep the reduction of the rent, the reduction in the cost that has led to the fact that, when the energy prices in Europe disappeared, the citizens in Hungary had the cheapest access to energy, and by the way, every family saved HUF 181 thousand a month by keeping the institution of the reduction. Of course, we can't be surprised that the results of the reduction of the rent are still being questioned by the left and calls the reduction of the rent a lie. Ferenc Gyurcsány called it stupid again in 2014, after the introduction of the reduction of the rent, and that is their position, I see, that has not changed. We can even remember when Ferenc Gyurcsány said that we can applaud, that we will break down all the benefits, but then we will starve to death because we need the profit in a well-functioning economy. I think that the benefits here, my fellow Members, are the safety of Hungarian families. That's what's important to us. We don't need any more, because the state doesn't have to live on citizens, it has to help them in trouble. [[Laszlo Varju: The sky is falling!]] Of course, this idea on the left may be a science fiction. The problem, by the way, is that when it was apparent how much it would be necessary to maintain the reduction, you chose Péter Márki-Zay, who also said in the election campaign that your policy will be about abolishing the reduction of the rent. As he said, one thing is certain: the form of the reduction of the rent that Viktor Orbán has made up, we do not want to maintain. This is a clear, clear resolution, and I think that they could not pursue a more irresponsible policy, and it is clear that you will therefore not support the budget, which is why you will not support the budget, because we are in favour of reducing the costs, and you are not. The other issue is the issue of defence. Lajos Kósa spoke before me about the increased importance of a war in our neighborhood. I do not want to repeat all the things that my fellow Member said, but I am sure we can say that before 2010, we were NATO stowaways. So we entered, we expected him to protect us, especially the United States of America's military forces and military capabilities, but otherwise, we didn't do the tasks we were committed to. I would add to Lajos Kósa's words that, although I am younger, I look from somewhere else, but to me on the defence policy before 2010, Imre Szekeres's speech of ominous speech comes to mind when I have not been able to say all the words correctly. [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] Yeah, yeah, so that speech brought back the most beautiful times in Brezhnyev. One thing is certain: it was a true reflection of your attitude towards defence at that time. I'm sure the outcome was that we inherited from you an army that was completely broken down in 2010. We wanted to change that, and I think that the Hungarian government, and István Simicskó, who was still working as Minister of Defence, praises his work by the recognition that it is necessary to do so in Europe for security. I think that the Hungarian government has taken over this recognition before time in Europe, and already in 2017 the programme for defence and force development has been launched, and in fact, this is why we are more advanced today in the area of security and defence than most European countries. And indeed, the defence expenditures, although Mr Varju says that he does not see this, but when he looks at the specific figures, he can see that this year, but also next year, in the budget of 2024, they will reach 2 percent of the planned GDP. Needless to say, the budget of 2024 spends seven times as much on strengthening, modernising and digitising defence as you, along with the tricks that Lajos Kósa talked about, translated in 2010. So we are doing everything we can, and that is what this budget is all about, to modernise Hungarian defence and to modernise the 21st century. Make it fit to face the challenges of the century. In the context of the development of forces, the capabilities of air forces, land-based capabilities, individual equipment of soldiers and the ability of management will also be developed. We think, of course, that we are part of a defense alliance, but ultimately we have to protect ourselves, and I think that when our neighbor is at war, this recognition is very important. Once again, I cannot go along with the fact that, while the Hungarian government recognised this already in 2016-17, the only thing you can do in the field of defence is to say that the weapons that Hungary now has will be given and that we should participate in the war in this sense. If they protest, I can quote Tordai Bence. He says that as all decent countries send weapons to Ukraine, so Hungary should do the same. Clear, clear speech, that's your position, and ours is different. We believe that the Hungarian Defence Office is responsible for protecting Hungarian people and guaranteeing the security of Hungary. [[19.00]] Another aspect of the defence budget is the need to protect Hungary's southern borders, and by adopting in Brussels such stealth legislation last week that migrants will be divided according to mandatory quotas in Europe, it is quite easy to see if those who want to move towards Europe are informed of this news, this will be another letter of invitation, and people who may not have done so before will also start. Therefore, the protection of Hungary's southern borders, to which the Hungarian government, the Hungarian budget, is investing, will be even more important, and even though we are protecting not only Hungary but also Europe's borders, the European Union has not paid a single cent to date. You know, this is the mandatory distribution mechanism that István Ujhelyi said never was and never will be, and, you know, this is the migration that your fellow party said was a fake problem, and we're the only ones who came up with it. Since the Hungarians have been able to express several times how important border protection is, and in a referendum, that they refuse to accept the compulsory resettlement quota, and in light of this and in accordance with the wishes of the Hungarian people, Parliament has also amended the Fundamental Law and included the protection of the constitutional identity and the prohibition of the resettlement of the foreign population, we will abide by it. Although this is indeed not primarily a budgetary issue, I just wanted to make a point. [[The chair is occupied by Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.]] All in all, I can say that the budget plan submitted by the Ministry of Finance in 2024 is suitable to protect Hungary's achievements so far, to keep Hungary out of the war, and to continue to protect Hungarian people from the harmful effects of war and failed Brussels policy. Therefore, of course, KDNP will support Hungary's 2024 defence budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-96	Welcome, fellow Members. Our next speaker is Congressman Ander Balázs of the Jobbik Group. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Sigmund Freud, the famous Austrian psychiatrist, has done a great job in his field. She also had a daughter, Anna Freud, who wrote a lot about countermeasures and used it to put her name in the history of psychology. What I've experienced here from a pro-government perspective is simply fitting into this line, and Anna Freud could have written a study on it. What are these countermeasures? If something is uncomfortable for the individual, he will try to completely deny it. For example, the ostrich effect Secretary of State is not in a very professional way, but I have experienced this now, and I will refer here to what I mean in particular, or to rationalising the problem, when they do not deny that it is a real problem, but they are trying to turn it on, blame it on someone else: Brussels, sanctioned inflation, and the rest, we have heard here a thousand times. With regard to inflation, how is it possible that inflation in Romania is 10 percent, and in Hungary inflation in December to December, say, last year, if you look at it, was 24.5 percent? ! There should be some rational explanation for this, beyond government propaganda. Well, basically, here on the budget, two philosophy, two huge paradigms clash. One is a neoliberal model of competitiveness, and the other I intend to sharpen my saying to education on the foundations laid by Széchenyi, which, he said, is the power of a nation in the multitude of educated heads of people. If we look at the government's attitude to this, whose councils the Prime Minister receives, the advice of Széchenyi for centuries, or even the advice of László Parragh, who said that our main competitiveness advantage lies practically in the wage cuts, then, if we look at the specific figures, it must be said that Viktor Orbán believed László Parragh rather than István Széchenyi. This neoliberal attitude is amazing, shocking, and totally unacceptable by the Jobbik-Conservatives. One of the items that we do not see or want to modify in the budget is that of the man 40. Of course, men should also have the opportunity to retire and enjoy a few more years of their life after forty years of hard physical work, especially if it was a difficult job in dangerous jobs, to devote it to their favorite hobbies or grandchildren. Well, if we look at the statistics, we see that a Hungarian male, say, can expect 11 years less in health than a Swedish man, and if we look at the EU 27, we still have two years left behind. The state of health they live in at all, because 38 percent of Hungarian men do not reach the point of retirement, so the state of the retirement age, and the state of horror stories and horrific statistical sequences and data about it could be drawn here to infinity, especially from crisis regions such as the one from which I came from, South Somogy. So, the health indicators, the mortality figures are quite shocking, and in this way, there may be a legitimate need for men to retire if they have this 40-year-long employment. From 200 billion forints, according to our calculations, that would otherwise be possible. But if Hungary is perceived as a kind of multi-gyarmat, as a vulnerable country for global capital, from the pro-government benches, then it is obviously a sweepable proposal, and it is viewed as being, or as, an abomination of, the devil of incense smoke. However, these Hungarian workers, who, according to OECD surveys, work much more than the average German worker, spend 1800 hours a year working against 1400 hours, and if you look at the earnings relations, it is quite tragic. I do not want to refer here to GDP, because this is what they use to rip out the pro-government side of what we are talking about when the opposition says that Romania has reached Hungary in terms of GDP. Let's look at the consumption. Let's look at the consumption that fell in Hungary, retail consumption, and in Romania, despite war, penalty inflation and sanctions, somehow it was able to grow. In Hungary, however, there is a very different attitude towards workers. The wages here make this increase of consumption impossible. Here's the thing, if you have to, you'll pull seven skins off the workers, then when they're worn out, they're sick, they're sick of work, they'll just throw them away like a used paper rag or something like a biorobot. The deterioration and reduction of the national human capital stock is, in this way, quite terrifying. And if we also add that in regions with a cumulative disadvantage, where there is a lower proportion of graduates or even of graduates, and let's just say, if we are narrowly looking at skilled workers, professional workers, 50 percent are not worth the retirement age. Now, this is the neoliberal recipe that you are so fond of using and unable to give up, because Viktor Orbán believes that he is more of a Parragh László than the residential complaints that the Members who dare to go there meet every day. Mr. Secretary. He said that the opposition here is wrongfully accusing the government of doing nothing, of people skinning and restrictions, and he also added that education expenditures will increase in real terms, for example, in the following year, not only in nominal terms, but also in real terms. [[19.10]] Mr. Secretary, I don't know, I'm a victim of some strange sabotage because we're looking at two separate budget plans. I would like to say the numbers, Mr Secretary of State: Klebelsberg Center for personal benefits, for this year their amended budget will be set at 540 billion forints, and next year it will be 604 billion. How big is this growth? Twelve percent. Where does this cover inflation? Yes, in this case, they will refer to EU funds, on which we are used to declare that they actually belong to Hungary. So if this is a national government, then you should be able to use national resources to create the financial framework for a normal and meaningful teacher's wage increase. I told you a thousand times, but I don't know how many times I have to, do I always predict the example following the First World War, when a losing world war, a Romanian occupation involving an amazing robbery, is about 19 thousand wagons of stolen goods, so much was taken out of Hungary, and after an unjust, rotten Trianon peace dictatorate, Kunó Klebelsberg didn't knock in Paris for resources, that please, we would like to sort out the domestic education, give us some money, but set it up. He created it on such a level that he magically cast a miracle on the ruins in Hungary. The thing about this, you, colleagues and ladies of the government, is that if you look at the numbers, you can't do it, or you don't have the will to do it. And if there is no willingness, why do they call themselves national forces, national parties, national governments? Mr. Secretary, here's the next figure. Vocational training centers, wage-like expenditure: from 133 billion to 150 billion. Where does this cover inflation? [[Interview from Fidesz: Fedezi, 6 percent, next year's budget.]] Colleagues! You can laugh at that, you can only try what it's like to make a living, say, on a teacher's salary or on a social worker's salary. I know it's a very bad and not a very promising perspective for you, but that's why you're shutting down, right, László Parragh, who said he didn't want to try what it's like to live on 300,000. I believe that you do, but then don't cheer on it, don't laugh at it, well, for a teacher, for a graduate or qualified person in the social sphere, it's a daily and bitter reality that your money is less and less worth, and you don't talk about inflation at six percent! What's 6 percent inflation? Last year was 24.5 percent, for the whole year. You can do magic with numbers, only reality shows something else, and how big it is this year, so don't tell me that this increase in inflation that we're seeing here is exactly what I'm gonna do, it's gonna cover it. He's not gonna cover for anything. This is, by the way, the total humiliation of workers in the social sector and education. That doesn't mean any wage improvement. I would like to refer then to the example in the Czech Republic, where Parliament accepted that 130 percent of average wages should be average teacher money and teacher salary. Hungary, if you look at the data of KSH, is talking about 582,000 forints per month that this is the average wage, multiply it by 1.3! It would be 757 thousand forints, and the Czechs are not asking Brussels for the money, and the Czechs can make it happen with national resources. But I'll tell you something else: in Romania too, so it's a terrible, really amazing thing to do with Romania, and it's kind of a positive example when teachers were able to fight 25 percent wage development, and here you want to spot out 12 percent of your eyes, which, I say again, can be said here to cover inflation, but don't look at teachers and social workers as idiots, because they're not covering for anyone. It's pretty obvious he's not covering for her. But I think that we will come back to this much during Friday's debate day. Unfortunately, my time is up, and I was gonna tell you, I took a lot of notes. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-06-13-98	Dear Parliament, Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. Under this framework, Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh from the Democratic Coalition. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-99	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I am glad that Minister of State has returned, because I would very much like to tell him personally what he threw up in our eyes after the main speakerial round, and I would like to say a few things about that. So, Secretary of State, I, if I remember correctly, you worked at the Ministry of Finance during the Gyurcsány governments, and I'm sorry, but you didn't allow that style to happen. It seems that at a time when he brings up the work of God, he then adapts and adapts to his masters, right now to his fidesz masters, and allows himself these sentences, although he should be sitting here as a specialist. The other thing I'd like to say to you is that if you say to anyone that you're anti-vaccination because the Chinese vaccine that the manufacturer doesn't recommend has been used all the way through the 65-year-olds, that's the real cynicism, Mr. Secretary of State, and I'm sorry, I really reject that. The people who died because you vaccinated them with these vaccines, although the manufacturer did not recommend them, simply your family will not understand these sentences. I would like to say one more sentence to you, and the fact that, although life expectancy has decreased in all European countries as a result of Covid, there is one country where this has not been restored, this is Hungary. Now, that's a shame, and when you talk about how great health services are under the government, I think you're telling the truth or not telling the truth again. I'm afraid I don't see Congressman Kósa in the room, even though I would have liked to have asked. We were talking about the tricks that the governments before 2010 did here. Now, Congressman Kósa forgot to tell you that the Rheinmetall company from which the Hungarian government buys military technology is raising capital in the company of one of the Fidesz oligarchs, Gellért Jászai. How is that, my dear fellow Members? Are we proud that someone from the Hungarian government is buying, and then we expect him to do some kind of oligarch service in return? So, I think, ladies and gentlemen, it would be nice to be here in Parliament telling the truth. Thank you. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2023-06-13-100	István Hollik, Member of the KDNP, also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-101	Thank you very much. In my speech I forgot to mention that Ferenc Gyurcsány said one more thing, which is worth talking about. The point is, the left doesn't want to take responsibility for the budget, and it doesn't have to. However, you have to take responsibility for one thing, so that the money that Hungary deserves, the teachers have a right to the Hungarian businesses, and they finally arrive in Hungary. And it is very telling that you are silent about this, although, by the way, when Minister for Finance Mihály Varga spoke about this, you began to laugh and laugh in a meaningful way. It seemed that you were certain that thanks to your minework, your boss said that you would do everything you could to ensure that these resources would not arrive, and even your ally, Anna Donáth, said two or three days ago that she had just proposed to the European Commission that the European Commission now impose another condition after condition 20. So in Hungarian, you can see that Anna Donáth has also taken your boss's orders, and they are doing everything they can to ensure that these EU funds, which are due to Hungary, do not arrive. So the sad reality is that you have to take responsibility for this. In fact, when this happens, what happens is that your fellow Members are working out in Brussels for a net salary of HUF 6 million so that they can't have a gross salary of HUF 800,000 for teachers. That's the sad reality. This is your responsibility, and therefore, please take responsibility, and do not keep this from us when we talk about the 2024 budget. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-13-102	We are returning to the list of speakers announced in advance, and I am sorry, Mr State Secretary has applied, and because he is taking part in the debate as Secretary of State, I would also like to address Mr Péter Banai as Secretary of State. Here you go. [[19.20]]
u2023-06-13-103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Parliament, I'm trying to give you factual information. That's what I did when I joined the Treasury Department in 1998, and that's what I've been doing ever since. If I make a statement that doesn't cover reality, I'll thank you and accept the criticism. However, I cannot accept the criticism that I cannot say something factual in my answer. To me, Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány mentioned the reduction in the number of years spent in health. We know that this was related to Covid, and I have actually said that in 2021 the Democratic Coalition organised a collection of signatures in order not to be vaccinated with Eastern vaccines. That was the statement of fact. I accept, on the part of the Member, that we have a number of tasks in health care. I have always said in all my comments, and I also think that we have a number of tasks. However, I cannot accept in the current budgetary debate that the government withdraws money from the health sector or education. I keep hearing this statement, but this statement is factually not true. I was talking about education. In connection with the comments made by Mr Ander Balázs, I would like to recommend to everyone the statement showing the collection of appropriations for the different chapters of the budget for the same purpose. If you look at the expenditure of an educational nature, it is factually apparent that the consolidated functional expenditure of public finances is increasing by more than HUF 600 billion. That we're not looking at the pay increase at Klebelsberg Center? Yeah, because it's not there, it's the provisions in the Ministry of Finance chapter. I apologize if I go into such professional depths, but I am obliged to do so if there is a statement that I think it is appropriate to put in place in order to talk about the budget, to talk about the proposal that is actually in front of the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-104	Then we will really return to the list of speakers that have been announced, and in the framework of this, it will be Mr Vinnai Győző, from the Fidesz faction. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-105	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I get to my comment, I regret that Ander Balázs has left, because I would like to make two comments. One of them is that he was a little out of line with the numbers. I have also looked at the amount to be spent on education in the sector budget, which is 2800 billion in 2023, and the budget we are discussing next year is 3400 billion, which is 600 billion forints more. If I divide, multiply, count, it's still above the planned inflation. Above him is what we use for educational expenditure. I will also mention the amount allocated to vocational training centres, because I would actually like to comment on this sub-area, but I would like to make one more comment first. This is that Kunó Klebelsberg, Minister of Religion and Public Education, replaced the Ministry of Home Affairs in 1922. He was Minister of Interior in the first Bethlen government in 1921 and Minister of Religion and Public Education from 1922 until his death. I looked at the parliamentary journals at the time, as historian Balázs Ander graduated from history, but it was possible that he somehow missed this strict movement, and I saw that we didn't just build a school from domestic sources. It is true that in the twenties Hungary spent almost 8-10 percent of GDP on cultural policy and education policy the Prime Minister always defended its minister; this was said by Klebelsberg himself in a Parliamentary contribution, but we also received a League loan of 250 million gold crowns. From this we built or relocated universities, built high schools, and built 5,000 folk schools, farm, rural and urban schools. So there was also a foreign loan in the restoration, the stabilisation, which Hungary received after 1924 and used up until 1930. I would like to say that, in my view, it is also very important that the budget is well-designed, stable and predictable and that it is important that sectoral resources be allocated. I myself believe that education is an important area, an investment in the future, which is why it must be sacrificed. Allow me to have a few more words about the budget. Next year's budget is a budget of protection, in the sense that it serves and guarantees the financial security of families and people and the country's physical security. In times of war, of course, it is difficult to plan, to deal with the dangers, but I feel that this draft budget law is dealing with these dangers, and this must be done in such a way that we cannot ignore or lose our achievements. The economic and physical security of the country must therefore be guaranteed. Hungarian families must be protected. There are two ways to do this, as we have heard from István Hollik, the reduction of the rent, the Rezségvédelmi Fény, in which there is HUF 1360 billion, and the other is the family support system that we can be proud of. And I can say that we are at the forefront of Europe, not only in terms of numbers, how much of GDP we spend on family support, but also in view of the principle of how much we want families, children to be born, because what I say may be commonplace, but there is no future without a true child. The real value of pensions must be protected. Next year's draft budget law intends to spend more than HUF 6500 billion on pensions, and the increase is definitely in inflation. We need a crisis-resistant economy. Four percent economic growth is expected from the draft budget with a reserve of 6 per cent inflation and 220 billion. I have just come to the essence of what I have to say, that we need to protect the jobs of this budget, and we have more than 2 percent of the defence expenditure, because the Hungarian Defence Fund has 1310 billion forints, and if I count correctly, Mr State Secretary, it reaches 2 percent of GDP, as we are talking about a HUF 69 000-70 000 billion GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned education from sectoral sources. Allow me to say something about vocational training on a sub-area. Vocational training is a success story. I want to present vocational training to you in the same dimension as how it protects jobs, because it promotes the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy if the skilled workforce is present, if the Hungarian economy can employ as many skilled workers as possible, which improves this competitiveness. In 2018-19, vocational training was completed 4.0, which meant a new system of vocational training. Attractive environment, secure job opportunities and the involvement of trainers and trainers in this process. Our first step, of course, was to give a 30 percent wage increase to trainers working in vocational education and training, which was also published in their accounts in 2020 and received a 15 percent increase this year, in 2023. So it can be said that within a few years, within two to three years, almost 50 percent of his instructors and instructors had a wage increase. And it was effective, because in vocational training, this transformation meant only briefly that the weight of practical training increased, the training takes place taking into account the needs of the economy, two professions can be studied free of charge, a new scholarship system that motivates students to apply here, dual training has been strengthened, employment has been changed, employment has been changed in the labour code, which allows flexible employment, as well as quality and quality of the education and wage increase. [[19.30]] In the budget of 2024 I am sorry that Ander Balázs left there is a surplus of HUF 16.6 billion, which from this year's wage increases of 15 percent, which I mentioned, will also cover next year's expenditure, since it started from a higher base. Vocational training centers can therefore count on a budget of HUF 194 billion, revenue or state aid, which is HUF 20 billion more than this year. There are two other important items that strengthen vocational training, one of which is the additional financing of the free training of state vocational training institutions, this is about HUF 20 billion, and the vocational training support of the National Employment Fund, this is the basic part of the training, including the need for a scholarship and a single start-up allowance, which is some HUF 50 billion in this budget law. Overall, if you look at the amounts to be spent on vocational training, this year's budget of 238 billion, i.e. this year's spending budget, will change to HUF 268 billion next year, this will amount to a surplus of 30 billion. It is very important that the Secretary of State also said that we should protect jobs, that 4 million 700 000 jobs, and that I, my comma horse, can protect these jobs in the competitive sector, so that if there is a sufficient skilled workforce, companies, larger companies and SMEs can involve it, because if there is adequate skills in the construction, automotive and all other areas, this economy will be crisis-resistant, as we have heard, if I remember correctly, the employment rate in Hungary is around 74 percent, 74.4 percent, and in this Europe we are at the forefront. So I think that the transformation of vocational training has gone well, and the draft budget law puts resources there, and that is acceptable and realistic in the current situation. That is why I support it, and I hope to say on behalf of the Fidesz fraction that I support the adoption of the budget as a whole and also the adoption of this sub-heading. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-106	Our next comment is Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh, of the Democratic Coalition. You have the floor in the remaining time frame. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-107	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, The Secretary of State, when he responded to my two-minute question, said that he would tell the facts; no, Mr State Secretary, I will do the same, and I would like to deal with pensioners and pensioners in the first place. It has already been said in this House several times today that on 7 July this Parliament will adopt next year's budget without knowing the financial and economic developments, and I think that one of the most difficult situations will be pensioners' society, they will again be the major losers of this year or next year, after 2022 and 2023, the redesigned inflation and the associated pension increase will cause them to lose significant pensions again. So far, this year, in 2023, an average pensioner was worse than 97,000 forints. If you, the majority of the Fidesz government, had complied with the laws which you have adopted and adopted, then today an average pension would not be 208 thousand forints, but 264 thousand forints, and, you know, fellow Members, you know, Mr Secretary of State, what a difference is that if a pensioner had 60 thousand forints more a month; I think that many people could save a lot of headaches. Neither the early-year pension increase nor the mid-year pension correction which, in vain, pensioners are waiting for now will not remedy the five months on which there is at least 21 percent VAT. [[Sic!]] And this general inflation that I am talking about, on the other hand, is much higher than food VAT or food price rise, and you should already know precisely that pensioners, especially pensioners, are actually spending most of their income on food, and that's what puts a strain on their cash register. You have a fifth month of inflation above 21 per cent, you have given a 15 per cent increase by January, but from last year and before last year, you owe pensioners an increase of 1.5 per cent from 2021 and 22 per cent from the pensioners. The fair thing would have been to give them this, and in January this 1.5 - percent increase would have been calculated. In fact, there was no social consultation at the budget, there was not much consultation with anyone, and in the opinion of experts, the achievement of the main figures is unrealistic. This also means that with the 6 percent inflation that you are planning for next year, and accordingly, you will expect a 6 percent increase in pensions, even if pensioners get a pension premium, they will simply be your losers, because no one believes that next year inflation will be 6 percent. According to the government's justification, the early budget helps families, businesses prepare and adapt to the new support and tax environment. Well, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, pensioners don't feel that way. In fact, you are following this exercise because you can subsequently modify the budget numbers sanctioned by Parliament in the early summer with government regulations, without any substantive parliamentary control. And, Mr Secretary of State, do not argue that this is only an interim transfer of the approved budget, which the government would have made, if that were the case, that you would not have brought the budget of 2023 back to Parliament in March this year. I think it's nothing but a hoax. You, of course, say that the real value of pensions has been preserved, but in our opinion, DK is of the opinion that this is the biggest deception of government budgetary rhetoric, since it is only expected to increase with underestimated inflation, and then, due to late increases, the elderly finance the budget, the government, and pensions are in fact constantly being devalued compared to wages. You are very keen to compare pensions before 2010 and pensions in 2022 and 23. That figure, I think, speaks for itself, which is about 77 percent of real wages and wages in 2010, 77 percent of average wages were average pensions, and now this figure is down to 50 percent. If you consider this to be a result, then I think we do not think the same thing about a decent old age. The pension minimum will remain unchanged, it will remain HUF 28 500 next year, and it has been cemented for 14 years. In addition, it affects not only the relatively small number of elderly people, but also about 20-25 000 people who receive this amount, but also other benefits linked to this artificially low minimum pension, which means that hundreds of thousands of other people are at a disadvantage because of this very low amount and have not changed for 14 years. This includes, for example, elderly people's benefits, child care support, care premiums and public health care. Overall, in the pension system, you are not willing to go through any structural changes. This shows the insensitiveness of the Fidesz government to maintain this system for 12 years and to increase pensions only in proportion to inflation, while the mixed indexation system could have been applied for years because of relatively rapid growth, economic, global economic processes and low energy prices, i.e. it is certain that the situation of pensioners could have improved by 2022. In addition to the fact that the increase in pensions, as I have already said for years, has been lagging behind the pace of economic growth, scissors are increasingly opening up between wages and pensions. This trend continued in 2023, and as we look at this budget, it will continue in 24th. The pension system remains unfair, not caring, not flexible, and will not be sustainable in the long term. There is a clause in the European Charter for Social Rights that I think you, although your Prime Minister has signed it with criteria, are simply unwilling to understand and refuse to comply with, and that is that the pension must be proportionate to the number of years worked and the contributions paid. And, ladies and gentlemen, this concerns not only the momentary situation of retirement, but also the whole period of old age, as long as one receives a pension. [[19.40]] If you were to keep this, you'd be in a much better position for pensioners today. We also have some suggestions that I think we are proposing for consideration. Of course, you will no longer enforce these in this budget, but I definitely think it is important that you speak before this House. It would be important to restore the constitutional guarantee of pensions; guarantee the value-proofness of pensions; combine inflation monitoring and adjustment to wages, i.e. mixed indexation; a quarterly automatic pension correction adapted to inflation and wage change; a significant increase in minimum pensions; a realistic pensioner's consumer basket when determining the rate of the annual pension increase; and the possibility of flexible retirement. A fair rethink of the system of early and invalidity rights would also be important. Ladies and gentlemen, I truly believe, and the Democratic Coalition sincerely believes that the only hope for the elderly in Hungary is for the shadow government of Klára Dobrev and a future government to give the elderly a decent pension after a worked life. And since I have a few minutes left, I would like to respond quickly to Mr Hollik's words about EU money. I'm sorry Congressman Hollik isn't in the room. I think that when the President of the Republic, elected by you, acknowledges that teachers' wages are not a condition for EU funds to arrive, because there is also a source for this in the Hungarian budget, I think it would be good to take this to heart. I would like to say one more thing to Congressman Hollik: quite simply, we do not need to transfer public funds and EU funds to fidesz oligarchs, then EU funds will come, especially if the expectations that the Union has set for the management of fair EU money would finally be met. Thank you for listening. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2023-06-13-108	We now have two-minute speeches again. In this context, MEP László Varju from the Democratic Coalition has applied. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-109	Madam President, thank you very much. I would like to continue where my fellow Member, Gy. Erzsébet Németh has stopped because in order to highlight from this budget, let us say, the most important elements, and indeed to do something for the people, we will put forward a number of amendments on the part of our group that would draw attention to the important changes that should be made in this way, either on the part of the local authorities or on the energy market or on the people, for example in pensions. If you cannot support this, then, of course, the fact is that the budget you have presented is not acceptable. This includes, among other things, the fact that the municipalities are being eviscerated and are using a withdrawal called solidarity with which, although Mr State Secretary will mention more money, the municipalities will receive more money, while, for some reason, they will be withdrawn from them, which is significantly different from the original intention, since the method you are applying has nothing to do with solidarity. However, in the remaining time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, once again, what Mr Secretary of State has said before, I would ask you to take into account: today, as a result of your economic policy, there is a recession in Hungary, even after the third quarter. And the way they can keep all of this alive instead of meaningful EU negotiations is by taking on a $4 billion loan from the market at very expensive interest rates. This is valid, Mr Secretary of State, as long as interest is kept so high. If not, this budget will be in big trouble. That is why this is unacceptable. Thank you for your patience, Madam President. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Bravo!]]
u2023-06-13-110	Mr Erik Bánki, from the Fidesz faction, also submitted a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, I can't help but react Gy. My fellow Member, Erzsébet Németh, has just spoken because I swear that I was sitting stunned and listening. [[László Varju: It happens!]] It's just amazing. So to talk about the pity of Hungarian pensioners, to say that what the government is doing through pensioner support is a fraud. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Like this, like this!]] And that the elderly finance the budget, my honourable fellow Member, assure me that even you do not believe that. So you, who was a member of a government that took away the 13th month pension from pensioners. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: We gave you seven times, Congressman!]] and whose left-wing governance, honourable Member [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh, with his fingers, shows the number seven times!]] pensions in Hungary decreased in real terms [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh, with his fingers, shows the number seven times! Laszlo Varju's fingers show seven.]] And I'm serious. Compared to this, Hungary has a government that has not only returned the 13th month's pension, which you have wrongfully taken away, and has taken away the 13th month's pension with a facial toast for all pensioners. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Let's not joke.]] We have increased pensions above real value every year. [[László Varju: Be honest! Just the truth.]] For the real value of pensions over the past 13 years, honourable Members, has increased, as opposed to your time. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: What?!]] It is not difficult to interpret: it has decreased under left-wing governments, it has grown under right-wing governments. It's no coincidence that pensioners feel appreciated in this country. Look at the burden-bearing capacity of the budget, my honourable fellow Member, we have paid a pension premium five times. Five times! [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Infiltrated in retirement?]] We have said that every year when economic growth is above 4 percent, we not only preserve the real value of pensions, but pay an extra pension premium. If you look at the budget figures, although I don't think you're interested, pension and pension subsidies will increase to HUF 6542 billion in the next year's budget. Dear fellow Member, That's 17 percent of GDP! I think that we should not be blushing on this basis, but we should be proud to be on the side of the pensioners and to keep what we promised them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-112	We will return to the speakers announced in writing. In this context, it will be Mr Mihály Witzmann, from the Fidesz faction. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess to you that I was inspired, too, by Gy. Erzsébet Németh's speech on pensions, the situation of pensioners. By the way, my fellow Member Erik Bánki took my bread with his speech, so I will not go out in such detail because he has told me everything, but in this Parliament there is a lot of political power that could speak for pensioners in substance, but there is some kind of discreet charm when Members sitting in the Group of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who, under their government, know what they have done. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Well, what?]] pensioners, pensions, as my colleague Erik Bánki explained in detail, are being called upon to account for the situation of pensioners on the government. Of course, we are not where we want to be as regards pensioners, but I think that the pensioner policy of the current government and the pensioner policy of the Gyurcsány government cannot simply be mentioned on the same page. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh, with his fingers, showed the number: I told you, seven times! We've given you seven times, Congressman.]] And then I would like to turn to my original speech. Another year has passed, and, if I count correctly, it is now the ninth year that, in accordance with the practice of previous years, the government has again submitted the next year's budget at the spring session of the Parliament, thus strengthening public financial predictability and planning. If we look at the main budgetary and economic indicators and try to compare the values planned in 2023 and planned in 2024, then we can say that there is a clear trend towards improving either in terms of economic growth or in terms of the development of the general government deficit, in terms of government debt or in terms of annual inflation, in the figures in the bill before us, which relates to the budget year 2024 at the level of the current plan. In addition, it is important to stress that the budget of 2024 also includes a central reserve of HUF 220 billion. So I think that your safety will be adequately guaranteed by the budget. The unstable global economy environment, the failed Brussels sanctions policy and the negative effects of the prolonged war are, of course, facing extraordinary challenges, so we need to protect our achievements even more, we cannot let them lose, and we need a budget that guarantees the country's physical and economic security, protects Hungarian families, jobs, pensions, and continues to maintain our unique regulatory system in Europe. Budget 2024 is a budget for protection. The two most important areas, as has already been said several times today, are public security and defence. Next year's budget preserves the Rezségvédelmi Fund, which will provide more than HUF 1360 billion for the payment of energy bills for families, state and local government bodies, institutions and companies. [[19.50]] Through this system, the government will also ensure the lowest level of European income for families next year. In addition, in the budget of 2024 there will be more funding for defence expenditure, thus strengthening the Defence Fund, with a budget of HUF 1309.6 billion in 2024, while total defence expenditure is now more than 2 percent of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, The management, economic policy and the functioning of the budget of a country can be measured in many ways. If I may, I would like to say a few sentences about the development and development plans that I represent in the Somogy 4 district of Siófok, which includes 71 settlements, and at Lake Balaton, which are financed by the budget. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Hungarian Government, through the present secretary of state, for the record amount of support in our region in recent years. It is important to talk about all this, just because it seems to many of us that left-wing and different left-wing media regularly, but especially at the beginning of such summer season, they now systematically try to seize every opportunity every year to make the development of the Balaton region or the situation of the tourism sector look bad. The usual false news, accusations and slanders usually come in this year either in relation to the water quality of Lake Balaton or the prices of hotels, catering units or local hospitality; the point is to launch some rude attack against Lake Balaton. Of course, I understand that the left does not like the success of the Balaton region, because unfortunately, from the period during which they are governed, we have a close-to-body experience, whether we are thinking about selling properties, beaches, tourist interests, or even unfulfilled, multibillion-dollar development promises. However, even after all these years, we cannot comprehend exactly why we at Lake Balaton are good and why it is in someone's interest to engage in the systematic debauchery of Lake Balaton, by creating bad, harmful and untrue false news about one of Hungary's greatest natural treasures, the Balaton. As a born Balaton, this is why I thought it was important, and I think it is important now, that at every opportunity, I stress that, while we are talking about a budget, no government has spent as much and spent as the current government in recent decades. In the last few years, economic, tourism and infrastructure developments have been made on Lake Balaton, which the people who used to live there have never dreamed of. I, thanks to the trust of the Somogy electorate, can so far spend my third term here in the Parliamentary horseshoe, and if I count correctly, I will participate in the tenth budget debate, but I do not remember, ladies and gentlemen, that from the left, at all times from the opposition, there has been a criticism of any draft budget, or that one of the elements of the current draft budget would have been shown positively by the opposition. In general, criticisms, negative voices on the budget constantly appeared, but, well, since politics, including development policy, budgetary policy, I think an experience genre, the facts should talk about how successful the budgets of the last few years, which have been constantly criticised by the opposition on the left, have been. Once again, I turn back to my narrower living environment, the area of Lake Balaton. Without the need for completeness, I would like to say that these budgetary resources, which have been constantly criticised by the opposition, have, among other things, completed the complete renovation of the southern Balaton railway line, the electrification of part of the northern coastal line section, the construction of the R67 road connecting Somogy county seat and Lake Balaton is also coming to an end. The main road 710 from the eastern direction of Lake Balaton has been built, and on the western side of Lake Balaton the sections of the M76 road are being built. With the efficient and appropriate use of budgetary resources, the renovation of the Balaton bike circuit has recently become complete. Our beaches have been beautiful to an unprecedented extent, which the opposition is constantly saying is that the government is taking away the beaches. Never have so many beaches been renovated. They've modernised the sailing port in Algara. For the first time, after many decades, a whole new boat can be delivered to Balaton. That's not something we remember going back decades, and I'm pretty sure my life wasn't such an example. And perhaps a nationwide number of people do not even know that there is, if I remember correctly, a more than 20 billion-dollar project to rebuild the Sió Channel's entire airlock system and rehab the Siófok canal section. Given the physical condition of the old airlock system, it is quite safe to say that we were in the moments after the last, but thanks to the government's support, this project can finally be implemented. We hope that the new complex is not only an infrastructure investment, but also a new tourist attraction at Lake Balaton. The old desire of the people of Somogy, Balaton and Sántod was, among other things, the old dream of the former Sántodpuszta majorship being able to renew itself. The good news is that the government's support of HUF 1.8 billion could be used to complete the first phase of this project, and we would also like to continue to implement the second phase as soon as the economic situation makes this possible. A completely new tourist attraction can also be the tourist development of the southern coast, the only castle ruin in Kereki village. The new visitors' centre can be delivered within weeks or days. This was also possible from this budget, which was criticised by the opposition, in our region. In addition, I would also like to point out, of course, that, in order to strengthen tourism, many tourist attractions, the development and renovation of accommodation and catering facilities are open to Balaton in recent years, through grants awarded by municipalities and businesses in Balaton. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the specific developments in Balaton mentioned in my speech, without the need for completeness, I wanted to point out that if we try to compare the country's economic results and budgetary performance in the light of developments in Balaton before 2010, then, I think it can be said clearly and clearly that Balaton has been able to grow on a much larger scale in recent years in terms of available services and developments than we have seen in the time of left-wing governments. However, we also need to see that the historical challenges facing both our country and our continent, the changes in the world economy, the failed EU sanctions policy, high overhead costs, prolonged war, illegal migration and its way of dealing in Europe, or the effects of the coronal virus epidemic, have been unexperienced for fiscal policy to reduce public debt, protect jobs, families and pensioners, and put the country's security first. I believe that the budgetary law before us is in any way capable of serving these objectives effectively, and I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of next year's budget with their votes, regardless of party political convictions, in the interests of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-13-114	Once again, two-minute speeches are possible. In this context, Mr László Varju has applied, who has 39 seconds. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-115	Thank you very much. I would like to use this short time to draw attention to the fact that, in this budget, honourable Members, Mr Witzmann and Mr Bánki, they planned a 6 per cent inflation, but, by the way, more than 10 per cent in the competition sector and almost 9 per cent in the public sector and a 6 per cent pension increase. So what's gonna happen? Indeed, pensioners pre-credit that they will not receive the supplement they should receive until later in this country. Therefore, this under-planning is unacceptable, and neither is this budget. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-13-116	Mr Mihály Witzmann also asked for a word for two minutes, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-117	I would not like to have a long-extensive debate with Mr László Varju, especially if it would not be gallant, because I see that he has a time frame of minus 5 seconds, so he will not be able to answer it, at most we will discuss it in the hallway. But I would ask with great respect, Mr President, why these noble thoughts, the fear of pensioners, were not so formulated in you when you were in government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] [[20.00]]
u2023-06-13-118	We will return to the speakers announced in writing, and in this context, it will be Mr Attila Tilki, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a difficult and sad task to sit through such a budgetary debate as a representative. It is sad because there is no substantive debate in many cases, but the unscrupulous saying that I should express myself gently; and it is not the style of parliament that can be said gently, but Mr Varju likes to say his words vehemently, as his boss ordered, Gy. And Mrs Erzsébet Németh uses a fine, but still a term for a secretary of state: her master as she asks. I think we need to reject this, so we are not talking about anyone in Parliament, by the way. He has a master for dogs and animals, we or Mr. Secretary of State have a maximum boss, a colleague, a leader. And it's sad because it's really the most important thing for us, it's about the budget for security and defence. And then the opposition parties... well, all right, I'm sure we can find a lot of errors in the budget, but it doesn't work anywhere, that everything that's in this budget is bad. Szabó Timea classified it simply in an untraceable way, what we did wrong. Congressman Ander, who also mentioned Anna Freud's defence mechanism, taught us in a teaching style, but forgot to say that the President of their party, Mr Gyöngyösi, voted in favour of the law on the basis of which the Council of Home Ministers accepted the compulsory migrant quota, which means that if Hungary says that it does not, then 250 billion forints will have to be paid with a migrant figure of 30,000. From this point on, the fact that he may be concerned about the teacher's wage increase is uncredited, as although we can add a word to it that they are Jobbik-Conservative, but they were on a platform with Ferenc Gyurcsány, as he said in one of the forums in Márki-Zay Somogy, that if necessary, we will join forces with the Nazis before the elections. Steinmetz Olympic champion stood behind him as a representative of the Nazis, as Péter Márki-Zay used to say. I think it's very important, and Gy. Erzsébet Németh also forgets this, because he was involved in the government, and in 2010 we took over left-wing municipalities with quite a lot of debt, and debt consolidation was one of the most important first steps for us. But it is also very important for us to make a solidarity contribution, because there are settlements in Budapest's capital city or in the districts of Budapest, which have a high tax capacity, and it is good to say, as a representative of a rural small settlement area, that small settlements may also benefit from the solidarity contribution, either through the Hungarian village programme or through certain grants, since the.Hungarian village programme is not an EU grant, but only a development from national sources. And, well, we say, perhaps critically, that there are fewer now, there is less for the Hungarian village programme, because the European economic crisis, which is due to the sanctions in Brussels, is indeed causing problems in Europe's budgets, and thus also caused and caused difficulties in the Hungarian budget. I would like to talk about one more thing, the Bethlen Gábor Fund; I am very pleased that the Bethlen Gábor Fund is worth 67 billion forints. That's important. [[To László Varju leaving the room:]] Mr Varju, while you are here, because with the help of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, fraternity relations can be established between Hungarian settlements in the Carpathian Basin. You know, I live in the neighborhood of the war, Ukraine borders on my constituency from the east, and many men of Hungarian origin aged 18-55 owe their lives to the fact that we gave them citizenship in 2010, so they could come to Hungary. I know that DK has never voted for it; I know that you only consider Transcarpathian Hungarians and people living in the Carpathian Basin as an alien factor affecting the election, but the programmes of Bethlen Gábor Fund are suitable for the development of friendships, relationships and even economic relations between Hungarian and Hungarian. Your prime minister spoke generously of the family allowance, but he forgot to say what kind of family policy preferences were not in your time; I just quickly list them, we introduced them, and we have them now: with rising resources, the four-year-old mother's absence, the 25-year-old's absence, the benefit of mothers under the age of 30, and the baby shower support. Yes, this budget is a budget for family protection, public health and defence, so we call on you to support this well-established, civilised budget with a calm conscience. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-13-120	Miklós Dukai, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-06-13-121	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, It is a pity that Congressman Varju left the Chamber because I wanted to address him; he said that the government and Parliament are eviscerating the municipalities. It's, uh, write and tell, it's not true. Just as Congressman Tilki mentioned earlier, when this government began to govern in 2010, we took over 1368 billion forints of debt from municipalities in the context of debt consolidation on the one hand; and, on the other hand, during Covid's period in connection with local business tax, when the government maximized the amount of business tax that could be collected by 1% of small and medium-sized enterprises, in 2021, the municipalities were assisted by the government by more than 56 billion forints; and in 2022 we gave more than 54 billion forints. But if we just look at the budget we're discussing, budget 2023 is budget IX. The total amount of the chapter was HUF 968 billion, the total amount of HUF 1049 billion will be included in the draft before us next year, and this will be added, for example, to the additional payment to the minimum wage in the municipalities, or more than HUF 76 billion in surplus decided at the end of last year. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-13-122	I would like to inform my fellow Members that the KDNP faction has indicated that it will hand over its remaining timeframe to Fidesz. Please adjust the display accordingly. [[It's happening.]] The debate will continue with the speech of Mr Simon Róbert Balázs, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As one of the Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Culture of the Parliament, I have chosen a topic that has not yet been mentioned, but I think that it is a priority for all of us and, of course, it is part of a universal culture, and this is nothing more than the promotion of sport and sport. What are the most important measures or targets that the government has already set in the field of sport over ten years ago? The objective of sport as a strategic sector is to make Hungary a sport nation, as well as a sports nation. In 2023, the national competition sport development programme was launched, with the main aim of supporting the Olympic sports, either directly or indirectly, for the sake of domestic and international effectiveness. We all know that in 2024 - that is, next year - an important event will take place in Paris, which is the Olympics and Paralympic Games. The draft budget provides budgetary resources to the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the Hungarian Paralympic Committee for the exit and the high level of care of the Olympic team, as well as, within the framework of the National Competition Sports Development Programme, it is necessary to provide grants and budgetary resources for sports associations and sports associations employing athletes. [[20.10]] At the same time, the government, and so, of course, the budget itself, pay particular attention to increasing the number of regular athletes, thereby improving the health status of the population and preventing disease. In this context, measures have been taken which, as a macro-economic impact, can also make a significant contribution in the long term to reducing health expenditure. Among other things, this is the goal of the support linked to the National Sports Programme, where by promoting sport, supporting student and student sport, the sports school program, a fund will be created that creates the love of sport for the present and future generations, and will also prepare them for the possibility of making progress in their careers as athletes. Specific sports professional tasks are to support sport activities aimed at improving health, sports activities in your area, sports programmes in student and higher education, sports for people with disabilities and disadvantaged social groups. In addition to broadening the social base of sport, government measures to improve the effectiveness of competition sport will play a key role. It is a strategic task to support strategic and operational tasks of priority sports disciplines, as well as key sports organisations, including sports associations in the capital and, of course, rural sports organisations. In addition to their sports and diplomatic significance, it is important to note that in Budapest next year, i.e. in 2024 there will be a short-track World Swimming Championship, the promotion of sports, the presentation of role models and the spread of volunteering, and therefore its support for these areas remains a priority. But let's take a look at the numbers, which means the resources available. In relation to the sector, the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the XIII. In total, HUF 162.2 billion in expenditure appropriations were approved. The implementation of sectoral tasks is ensured in the budget of the chapters, with central management of HUF 44.2 billion, a chapter budget of HUF 115.1 billion and an additional HUF 2.9 billion in the institutional budget. The National Sport Centres have ceased to be a budgetary body, which includes the operation and development of sports facilities, and the operation of the Sport Museum has been taken over by the National Sport Infrastructure Agency since 1 January 2023. The budgetary expenditure related to the public task of the National Sport Infrastructure Agency will also be provided in 2024 by centralised appropriations. Let's look at the sports projects. The National Institute of Sports Health carries out its activities through the Budapest and regional centres, as well as through the county and local sites. Companies supporting the performance of sectoral tasks, the National Sport Infrastructure Agency Nonprofit Private Limited Company NSÜ Zrt. ownership rights in excess of those rights shall be exercised by the Ministry of Defence from 27 May 2022. The company also carries out the professional and police tasks related to the organisation of major international sporting events and the public tasks of the National Sport Infrastructure Agency in its main activities. There are four companies subject to NSÜ ownership rights: N.S. Media and Asset Management Limited Liability Company, Diósgyőr Stadium Renovation Limited Liability Company, Advanced Sports Complex Developer Nonprofit Limited Liability Company, and Hungaroring Sport Privately Operating Company. The chapter-based appropriations related to the tasks of sport shall include: support for competition and professional tasks, support for the national competitions development programme, training programme, training programme for sports, support for sport, promotion of the training programme, support for the tasks of the Hungarian Football Association, support for the publicly recognised sports academies, recognition of sports results, sports activities, sports performances, support for sport care, support for sports science, support for the nation of swimming, support for the programme of sport facilities, promotion of sport promotion, support for sport promotion, support for student sport, support for the national sport organisation, support for sport activities, support for sport events organised in Hungary, support for sport activities with special emphasis on sports, support for sport activities with disabilities, and support for the operation of the 17 priority sports clubs, national sport development programmes, support for sports facilities and development, support for the promotion of sport activities at international level, as well as support for sport events in Hungary, support for sport activities with a focus on sports, support of the sport, sport with disabilities and the operation of national sports. Finally, some ideas about development and investment related to sport. In order to increase the use of live sport, the necessary infrastructure improvements should also be ensured, which is fully ensured by the draft budget. The development planned by the major sports disciplines and the sports associations in the capital, and the support for the development of the national sport development programme, are a key task. In the framework of the development of sports facilities, the quality of the Hungarian prominent central institutions, which also ensure the preparation of the selected ones, can be increased to the level that the sports branches increasingly choose the home training centres as the location for their preparation. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, it is a priority to promote the strategic role of sport in order to strengthen the state of health and cultural cohesion of the nation, as well as to maintain and enhance traditional Hungarian performances. As I mentioned, the Ministry of Defence, or XIII. For sport support, HUF 162.2 billion is available on the basis of the draft. I would like to say, and I said last year that sport is a priority area, perhaps even an area of public life where we can all cheer for an association or even the Hungarian national team, regardless of party political affiliation and other ideologies. Sport as a Member of the Parliament of Győr is a priority area for me, too. I could give you a long list of results in Győr, and I would like to highlight one: recently, handballers in Győr have reached third place in the Champions League, and every year in the past ten years have been among the best four. It seems, and I'm sure there will be athletes from Győr in next year's Olympics, whether from the kayak canoe or swimming, and we have a medal. So go, Hungarian sports, go, Hungarian athletes! And back to the budget: as I mentioned at the beginning, sport is part of the universal culture. In this connection, one last point: many people say that culture is expensive, and I think that it would be really expensive if we didn't translate it into this. So the appropriate envelope is available, so I would also like to encourage my fellow Members who are sitting here with us right now, or who may not be in the room now, to support the budget for next year, not only for sport, but also for other areas, of course. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-124	Congressman Csaba Nagy, from the Fidesz Group, is our next speaker. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-125	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The Law on Hungary's central budget for 2024 allows the Ministry of Justice to set the goal of contributing to Hungary's development by creating, simplifying and making it more transparent and reducing administrative burdens. [[20.20]] The harmonisation of laws coordinated by the Ministry of Justice is a permanent, professionally wide-ranging activity, which includes the legal control of all draft domestic legislation in the Union and its adaptation to the changing legal provisions of the EU, as well as the coordination of the legislative activities of professional wallets. The protection of Hungarian constitutional identity and the strengthening of its international acceptance remain one of the priority tasks of the wallet. The Ministry is committed to developing a solution that actually reflects the principle of subsidiarity. As in recent years, the portfolio pays particular attention to increasing public trust in justice, so the Ministry has established a new basis for professional cooperation with all legal professions. Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I will discuss in more detail one of the tasks of the judicial portfolio that I consider particularly important, victim support, since victim support is part of the care policy, and victim assistance is shown by the human-faced, empathic state. Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, spoke of the purpose of setting up victim support centers, and I quote: "The purpose of setting up victim assistance centers was to help victims of crime with personalized forms of support in a calmer, more private and philanthropic atmosphere, other than an official, bureaucratic environment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In 2017, the Government decided that the Minister of Justice was responsible for establishing a more effective system of State victim support. The Ministry of Justice has started to set up a network of victim support centres in line with the objectives set out in the victim support strategy. In the government decision on the development of the victim support system in 2019, the government agrees with the expansion of victim support centres into a national network, for which it provides the necessary development resources at the expense of the central budget. According to the legal definition, he is a victim, so he can receive help, who has become a victim of a crime or a violation of property in Hungary, or who has suffered injury, physical or psychological injury, emotional trauma or property damage as a direct consequence of the crime. These include, among others, theft, robbery, fraud, victims and relatives of trafficking in human beings, various victims of violence, in particular victims of family and relationship violence, including physical and psychological abuse, sexual abuse, fence, child prostitution, harassment. The services of victim assistance centres can be used by any citizen of the EU Member State living in Hungary, or by a Hungarian citizen living in Hungary who has been the victim of a crime during his legal stay abroad. The first victim support centre in Budapest opened its doors in June 2017. In 2023, a total of 14 victim support centers and four victim assistance points operate across the country. The aim of the Ministry is to have a victim support centre or victim assistance point in every county of the country by the end of 2024; to this end, four additional victim assistance centres will be opened in 2024. In addition, the operation of the victim support line linked to the professional management of victim support centres, the provision of psychological care, remains among the objectives of the Ministry. The government is constantly expanding the network. Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, handed over the latest victim support centre in Pécsaba in 2023. The Minister of State of the Ministry of Justice said that since 2010 the government has been working on providing the widest possible assistance for those in distress, both at the level of legislation and in practice. We would like to establish the network in all the counties until 2025, we are already present in fourteen. The victim support centers work with more than 130 national, local and civil organizations, church organizations and universities, and help with professional training. In my immediate environment, in the case of Baranya County, we can count on Baranya County Government Office, Baranya County Polgárőr Association, Baranya County Police Department, including the Pécs Police Department, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service Association and the University of Pécs as a cooperating partner. Dear Parliament, In view of the wide range of activities of the Ministry of Justice, I would also like to touch on another important area, consumer protection, as the Ministry of Justice protects the rights of Hungarian families, Hungarian consumers, both in Hungary and in Europe, in accordance with the Basic Law. It considers it particularly important to ensure the right of children to adequate physical, mental and moral development, including through means of consumer protection, as well as to guarantee the financial and physical safety of consumers. The Ministry of Justice is largely committed to breaking down sanctioned inflation, with the aim of facilitating the consumer protection authority's uniform and effective action as a professional manager in order to ensure transparency of consumer prices and to enforce consumer price standards. The Ministry of Justice also supports the work of conciliation bodies set up to settle individual consumer disputes out of court and the activities of consumer associations, which constitute an important pillar of consumer protection. It prioritises the prevention of the placing on the market of dangerous products, the withdrawal from the market of dangerous products in the commercial sector, which is achieved through the continuous and effective market surveillance activities of the Consumer Protection Authority. It also protects consumers against unfair, misleading and aggressive commercial practices that are detrimental to informed consumer choices, while at the same time increasing their action in the event of violations in the digital world. Such a digital consumer protection programme is, for example, the CyberPajor Programme. In addition, the Ministry of Justice has directly supported the development of a sustainable, conscious consumer approach from school age using modern age communication channels and school applications. Ladies and gentlemen, Chapter X of the proposal for a budget law concerning the Ministry of Justice provides the Ministry of Justice with sufficient financial background for Hungary's permanent representation with the European Union to enforce Hungary's interests. The T/4181. A number of legislative proposals provide the Ministry for the performance of the tasks of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2024 and the necessary budgetary resources to carry out the administrative tasks and to achieve the broad functioning of the Comparative Law Institute of Mádl Ferenc. The necessary financial resources for payment obligations under the legislation, victim protection, consumer protection and animal protection are also included in the bill, with a total amount of HUF 26 billion of HUF 301 million. I would like to ask my fellow Members that the T/4181 on Hungary's central budget for 2024 I would like to vote in favour of bill number 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-13-126	This is Congressman Gábor Riz of the Fidesz faction. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We have Hungary's budget law of 2024 ahead of us. As has already been said several times today, the budget is a budget for defence and in an unstable global economy environment, all the consequences of an EU sanctions policy and a prolonged war have a negative impact on what can be called the preparation of a stable budget. Nevertheless, very important ideas are formulated on the ideological side of the budget as well as on the numerical side. Since we are talking about the budget for protection, the protection of Hungarian families and Hungarian people is the most important and, accordingly, the protection of one of its achievements, which we call the reduction of the rent, which has been a very important part of the Hungarian budget policy since 2013. In all of this, we would like to help Hungarian families to prepare in a predictable and planned way for a winter period, and to put a reduced budget burden on them, they can safely survive these difficult or cold days. As in previous years, the budget is increasingly helping to pay the energy bills of families, state and municipal bodies, institutions and companies by HUF 1360 billion this year and the following year. Two important areas are primarily separated, one being connected to the public and the other to the non-popular reduction of the rent. Thus, the central budgetary bodies, the compensation of municipalities, the support of church and civil institution-holders, the support of state-owned companies and the support of the competition sector are also included in this item, which is called a reduction fund. [[20.30]] The second part of my comment concerns the Hungarian energy policy and the related developments, because without it there is no budget that is energy, part of the reduction of the rent, not well-founded. This is why it is important to see what kind of external economic environment and in what domestic economic environment Europe's energy policy and Hungary's energy policy are. A few thoughts about the history. In recent years, the Covid crisis in 2020 that broke the major world supply chains has been a decisive factor for farmers and actors who have suffered everything we call the global economy and have been seen as a direct loss of revenue in recent years. The resulting economic crisis has further strengthened this negative process. The Russian-Ukrainian war of 2022 and the faulty sanctions in Brussels caused massive energy supply disruptions both in terms of gas prices and electricity. This may be compounded by the fact that the energy policy of the world and of Europe, as well as the Hungarian energy policy, has changed significantly, since it is going through a strong greening process, renewable energy sources that have been put in order before, and there is an explosive development in energy policy and energy technology. Perhaps we still have the terrifying images that make winter 22-23 come before us, as in the advertisements on German television the old lady who holds a candle under the pot considers this to be a complement to her heating. Well, part of it has been confirmed by the world's economy and the hectic movement of energy prices, because if we look at the last year, it has risen from depth to heights and then decreased back and forth, for example, the price of gas or electricity. It was difficult to count on this, but this is why the Hungarian government considered it crucial to establish a band for Hungarian citizens, which could solve their winter heating, their winter fuel and their lighting with high security and low budget expenditure within the band. In other countries of Europe, this was coupled with a very high price. Allow me some data. For example, in Budapest the price of electricity was 9.3 euro cents per kilowatt hour, the European average was 27.47 euro cents, while Berliners, for example, paid 44 euro cents per kilowatt hour during the same late spring period. It is also very important to say that the government is obviously striving to reserve a right to self-determination in addition to creating energy security in Hungary, in addition to ensuring security of supply, so that we can set up energy sources that are domestic, sustainable and our own. In addition, we are, of course, connected to European energy networks in terms of both electricity and gas, because the cross-border or cross-border capacities without which there is no European supply system are still available. These include, for example, the 400-kilo European north-south line, recently delivered alongside Ozd, which helps our energy community with, for example, Slovakia and the Visegrád Four. Indeed, it is also necessary, since the introduction of renewables at national level also means that if during a given period solar cells are hit by a strong light effect during the day, for example, they produce electricity, and if they produce electricity at nearly the same time, and if they produce electricity at a close time, then Europe as well as Hungary's energy system is shaken, because these refined, smoothed and coordinated systems are sensitive to the need for electricity to be available at all times as much as consumers need. Sudden overflow or lack of it causes hecticity, and it is called shaking the system. This is why it was very important how cross-border capacities can complement each other in the difficult days; see the Germans when the wind was not blowing and the sun was not shining, for example, the French nuclear power plant was used to help them out in those critical moments, just as there is passage to Ukraine through the Hungarian cross-section, and we receive and help them, for example. I have to say in this respect that the budget of 2024 did not by accident put in such an important addition, an important item that helps the development of the energy and climate policy system, since it supports developments that represent energy security in Hungary, worth about HUF 102 billion. As I said, besides putting the green energy system into place, we also have a very important focus on basic energy sources such as Paks, Paks II and Mátra, and how those gas power plants are available, because, as we have said, the Hungarian energy system is a sophisticated, fine-tuning system, and it must have its power plants that provide the so-called cord current, basic current. For example, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant accounts for nearly 44 percent of domestic energy sources, but also Mátra, which gives 9-10 percent of its coal power plant and gas power plants, which are included as primary power plants or balancing power plants when green energy is available or not, as I said, always needs to be smoothed out, as is the domestic energy system. For this reason, it was a foundation for the Hungarian government, and one of the important developments of the next period was that, focusing on the new developments and investments, such as the neighbourhood of Debrecen, the neighbourhood of Nyíregyháza, the neighbourhood of Central Transdanubia, where there is a high energy demand, our own energy system and our energy network should also be developed. Among other things, this type of funding is available in the 2024 budget, and it is important, among other things, that Mátra, as well as the former thermal power plant in Tiszaújváros, is supplemented by three blocks that provide the power as a base power plant for development in Debrecen, without which they could not operate. I also have to mention that some of the development resources are also available in the fields of research and development, and the support of separate public funds is essential in the field of domestic energy development and research. Thus, the government's objective is to ensure that these resources are made available in a coordinated, practical, efficient way, in a supportive way that improves the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, which is separated from two major parts. From around HUF 46 billion, the core part of the research will be spent on development, while in the innovation fund, which amounts to HUF 62.8 billion, in which it focuses on strengthening the socio-economic innovation ecosystem, social and economic exploitation aspects, and the novums that serve, among other things, the development of the domestic energy system or energy system. Since the budget contains, for me, very important items that strengthen the security of supply of the population, it strengthens our national self-determination, which gives us the opportunity, in cooperation with Europe, to strengthen some of our domestic resources, and I, for my part, wholeheartedly recommend the adoption of the 2024 budget for all my fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-13-128	Congresswoman Agnes Molnár, from the Fidesz faction. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-129	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about the defence budget, and this is also true in health, which not only protects the results so far, but also contains significant additional resources. Thus, the government will also ensure that developments and investments in health care and national health programmes can continue. In the budget of 2024 there are a total of HUF 3225 billion for health purposes. This is HUF 424 billion more than this year, and it was HUF 2027 billion more than in 2010 in the last budget submitted by the left-wing government. The Health Insurance Fund budget will continue to be balanced next year. For the most important item of the medical register, the curative-preventive benefits will be HUF 2552 billion next year, which is HUF 240 billion higher than this year's estimate. [[20.40]] Most of the surplus is covered by wage increases for health professionals and health workers. From 2010 onwards, the government has highlighted the moral and financial appreciation of health workers, which is reflected in the fact that the health sector has received the highest wage increase during this period. I do not think there is a debate on the fact that the work of those working in the health sector is extremely important and that we must appreciate it. Before looking at next year's figures, let us briefly look back at what happened after 2010 in this area! Doctors and nurses' wages increased on average by 27 percent in 2012-13, affecting 100,000 people. After that, medical wages increased by HUF 207 thousand in 2016-17, and since 2021 an unprecedented increase was achieved at three paces. The new billboard of 2021 was the biggest leap so far, and in many cases the basic wages increased several times, with the 28,5 percent increase last year and the 11 percent increase this year. At present, specialists will receive five or even nine times as basic wages as before the 2010 government change. The doctor's salary increase was able to stabilize the medical staff in the hospitals. A beginner doctor's gross basic salary in 2010 was 129 thousand forints, now 687,000. A doctor working 20 years ago had already increased to HUF 1 million 491,000 for his previous basic salary of HUF 165 thousand, and a doctor near the end of his career compared to 2010, when his basic salary was only HUF 262,000 gross, he now earns HUF 2 million 380,000. Employee wages increased in four stages between 2016-19. As a follow-up, a 14 percent increase was made in 2020 and another 20 percent increase was made. On the last increase, in January 2022, there was an additional 21 percent increase in nursing wages compared to the basic salary for 2018. It is important that since 2019 the patrons are part of the laborer's payroll, so they will receive the same wage increase. The wages of nurses increased three times on average between 2010 and 2022. Let's take a few examples here. At the beginning of our government, a beginner's wage was 126 thousand forints, and now the basic salary of 422,000 nurses who worked for twenty years was 149 thousand forints in 2010, now 493,000 forints. After 20 years, he grew from 106,000 to 389 thousand forints. However, in order to ensure a proper number of nurses, the government decided to increase their wages further. As a result of the increase in nursing wages, by March 1, 2024 the average basic salary of health professionals should reach 37% of the average basic medical salary. This ratio is the same as for average European medical and nursing wages. For this, a two-step increase is made. Already next month, in July, labor wages are up by 18 percent. And in March 2024 another 20 percent. The basic wage increase will be 41,6 percent compared to today's amounts. It is also important that, in addition to 84 000 health professionals, 24,000 of healthcare workers are now receiving wage increases, including economic, technical and financial workers, who are not qualified for health care, but are important for the sector. In the draft budget, there is a surplus of HUF 162 billion for health professionals and HUF 34.4 billion for health care workers, thus a HUF 200 billion surplus will be available next year for wage increases by HUF 3.5 billion due to the prolonged impact of medical increases. In recent years, wage support for doctors, dentists and assistants working in primary care has been incorporated into the basic supply appropriations, raising them significantly. For example, the GP cash register has more than tripled since 2010, from 78 billion to 258 billion forints. In 2024 there are 118 billion for the wage support of the general practitioners and the workers who assist them in their work, and 45 billion for the dentists and the workers who assist them in their work. Recently, KSH also compared occupations in terms of income developments between 2019-22. In terms of wage increases, health care has made the lead so that the five most rising groups are specialists, higher education nurses, general doctors, dentists and psychologists. According to KSH data, the average gross salary of a specialist increased by two and a half times, the wages of general doctors tripled, and the wages of nurses with tertiary education increased by 72 percent over three years. And that does not mean that all this is enough; as I mentioned earlier, the wage increase continues. On the other hand, we must say that during the eight-year left-wing governance, the wages of healthcare workers were only increased once between 2002 and 2010. This was the 50 percent wage increase that was not followed by another one, so it was worn out by inflation at the time, and it was also done by credit, punching a hole in the health budget at that time. Thus, since 2010, the highest rate of wage growth has been achieved in health care. Compared to the budget provided by the last left-wing government, the amount of resources spent on health wages is nearly quadrupled by the budget for 2024. In 2024 there will be 1030 billion HUF more funding for healthcare workers than in 2010. For us, the health of Hungarian people is always a priority. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these figures speak for themselves: therefore, the employees of health care received much more, more and more wage increases after 2010 than before, and in terms of budget figures, and in view of these, this will be no different next year. On this basis, I warmly recommend the support of Hungary's central budget for 2024. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-13-130	Mr Miklós Dukai asked for the floor in a normal time frame. I'll give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, Dear House, Thank you very much, Mrs Molnár, for speaking to the health part of the budget; I also asked for the floor as a representative of the Ministry of Interior, where the area of health belongs. First of all, I know that the ladies and gentlemen of Congress have remembered today, but I would also like to stress here that today is the day of the Hungarian women's defence. This day was founded 108 years ago, when the Association of Hungarian Protectors was established in Hungary. It is so important to the government that this service and the women in charge are so important that a few years ago, and I am sorry for the expression, this year we declared the service of patrons a hungaricum on the one hand; and, on the other hand, as the congresswoman said, the government places health as a top priority. It is not for nothing that the government says that the national government of Hungary regards human and human health as a priority. Good health is a significant individual and social value and resource, whose preservation and development is of national interest. For example, this is also served by the strategy and the vision of the Healthy Hungary 2021-2027, in which the government fixed the introduction of basic health care on a new basis as a government priority, the strengthening of prevention activities, the strengthening of outpatient care and the establishment of a sustainable, well-functioning institutional system. [[20.50]] I think that the draft budget that we are about to have is for these purposes, so I ask Members with respect to support the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2023-06-13-132	Congressman Attila Stojka, from the Fidesz faction. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-133	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The main objective of the budget for 2024 is to protect and maintain the results so far. If we approach the budget presented from this point of view, we should also take into account where we have come from in the last 10 to 13 years. This method can accurately show and identify the tangible results that will be retained and preserved as the basic objective of the next year's budget. And if we are going to list the results, then they should also be made factual, even if they give the opposition a debate. But what are they arguing about? They argue that during the socialist governments, one million of our countrymen lived on aid, while during the 13 years of the national government a million new jobs were created. The great result of the last decade is that the number of people employed in Hungary has increased by one million. This represents a 27 percent increase in ten years. In particular, the employment rate of Roma people has increased from 27 per cent to 46 per cent, which represents a 75% increase in recent years. The employment of disabled people with disabilities increased significantly, resulting in an employment rate of 44 per cent from 18 per cent in 2011 to 22 per cent in 2011. This represents a 150-percent expansion. On this basis, it can be concluded that the most difficult people have been able to engage in employment, because our social policy is based on the pillar of a work-based society, while the left is based on aid-based benefits, which keep individuals in a passive position. For families, including a country, the protection and care of children is sacred and inviolable. That is why it is important that the safety net always provides a basis for society's care. This is why it is important to highlight from the draft budget the resources devoted to social child protection and child welfare services, which also reflects the government's priority. As long as HUF 1376.3 billion was available for this type of expenditure in 2023, HUF 1461.1 billion is already available in the year 2024. This represents more than HUF 84.8 billion in social child protection and child welfare services than in 2023. But if we look at the process of the last decade, we can also say that the amount of these expenditures has increased by 349 percent compared to 2010. In 2010, it was HUF 325.2 billion, and next year it will be HUF 1461.1 billion. The last decade can also be called the decade of catching up policy. In 2010-11, measures have been introduced to guarantee the creation of opportunities for disadvantaged people. The 2024 budget will ensure the stability of the results of the catching-up policy measures. Today, it is the smallest, i.e. to say, in the earliest stages of life, intervention must be required and individuals must be helped to overcome disadvantages. It cannot be that the life of the individual is determined by where it is born. This fight against poverty, or, in other words, the vicious circle of re-production of poverty, can be broken by the system of children's homes, which is the first step in raising children's chances with early development and the involvement of parents. In 2012, there were only 44 such institutions in the country, currently 177. Compared to HUF 1.676 billion this year, the amount available for children's homes will rise to HUF 1 billion 829 million by 2024. This is nearly 153 million forints more than this year. School education is the most important factor affecting labour market opportunities. This is why it is important to ensure that the institution system for academic success is financed. Schools serve school success and useful leisure, as well as the further development of young people. Over the last decade, the number of schools has increased nearly three times. Currently there are 178 schools in the country, helping over 6,000 children to advance their studies. This year's funding is going to be 281 million more. A total of HUF 3 billion is available in the budget of 2024. School success is encouraged by the Travel Scholarship Scheme. This scholarship system is not the same as a scholarship disguised as a scholarship under left-wing governance, but can only be called a grant. During left-wing governance, underprivileged children received HUF 2500 a month in this scholarship, regardless of their educational results, even if they failed. It did not contain any difference or incentive system. He got the same amount as the outstanding students. That's why, in reality, you can call it aid because you gave it, but it didn't inspire you. The national government has also reformed this scholarship, and if we were to achieve an incentive effect, we have adapted it accordingly. Today, this scholarship system is dependent on academic results, and the hardworking disadvantaged child can receive up to HUF 20,000 a month. This scholarship is supported by 10,000 students each year. The budget of 2024 provides the necessary coverage, which represents HUF 2 billion and HUF 555.8 million. I would also like to highlight the operation of Roma schools, which have doubled the number of Roma graduates since their operation. Therefore, it cannot be a question that the budget of 2024 should provide funding for the Roma network of professional schools to help increase Roma intellectuals and Roma graduates. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the fact that the economic recession in the world and the inflation caused by the war in the neighbourhood are felt in Hungary, the budget of 2024 guarantees the functioning of the institutionalised system of chance creation. Accordingly, in order to maintain and ensure our achievements, I propose and support the adoption of the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2023-06-13-134	Congressman Sándor F. Kovács, from the Fidesz faction. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-13-135	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the budget for 2024 that we are in, and at this point, you always think and consider what a real budget should be like. The first thing we need to do is serve this country, it has to be credible, it has to be true, and it has to be something we can say at the end of next year that the numbers have stood their ground. A budget must also be balanced, since the balance between revenue and expenditure must be maintained. We can say that this budget is such a budget, as it increases revenues, but by counting on the performance of the economy; the economic performance that we intend to achieve and the budget is likely to increase the budget by around 4 per cent in the next year, or by up to 4 per cent in the next year. By boosting the economy and strengthening the economy, revenues can be increased. [[21.00]] During socialist governance, revenues were increased by borrowing, selling and reliving state assets. That's not what the current budget is counting on. He is not counting on the recovery of state assets, but on the increase of state wealth, not on the increase of borrowings, but on the reduction of public debt in proportion to GDP next year. So this budget, the budget of 2024, is focused on balance, on increasing the economy, and increasing revenues by increasing the strength of the economy and not on the future. The budget for 2024 cannot be negotiated without looking back at the economic situation of recent years. At the beginning of last year, we completed about three years of the coronal virus epidemic, which had an impact on the country, the economy and the world as a whole that we could not have expected four or five years ago, and we would not have thought of it, since the coronal virus epidemic that started in 2019 has not only affected health, not just people, but also the economy. We are in an economic situation where the closure of the country, quarantine, medical emergency measures have overridden all our calculations. At the beginning of last year, we thought this epidemic was over. We have a successful economic time ahead of us that meets all our confidence and expectations. Economic growth in Europe has increased in a unique way, inflation has been low, and we thought that we have succeeded, as the President of the National Bank said it was possible to prevent it in a corner during the outbreak of the Crown Virus. And we had every reason to continue this successful economic policy this year. But success always consists of other components, because at the beginning of last year, we did not expect war to break out in our neighbours; war is breaking out in our immediate neighbours, and it overrides all economic calculations and all economic ideas. Energy prices have increased in an extreme way, which has been a heavy burden on the Hungarian economy, since we do not have independent resources, independent oil and gas capacities. We all need to import, and we have to pay for this import in dollars and euros. So this period has been very hard on the budget, which has an impact this year as well. The last year has warned us that an extreme situation could come at any time that could overwrite the budget. Therefore, this budget, the budget for 2024, is optimistic but cautious. We trust that energy prices will return to normal, we trust that inflation will decrease, we trust that those jobs, those ideas will come true, and the fruits of what the government has done so far will come to pass. Despite careful planning, this budget is a little more open, a little more optimistic than it was this year. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This budget also plans to be a budget for defence, as we live in times of war, in our neighbourhood there is a war, and it is pressing its mark not only on the Hungarian economy, but also on the European economy. We can talk about a defence budget in this budget. The protection budget must protect the real value of pensions. The real value of pensions will be guaranteed by this budget, and even a pension premium will be paid, and the 13th month pension will be included in the budget. This is very important for the elderly, who are demanding of the government. We're gonna protect the families, too. This budget will also ensure that benefits for families are maintained, as Europe as a whole should be out of the demographic upheaval. Hungary sets a good example in this regard. This defense budget also protects families. But it will also protect jobs, because we have achieved 4.7 million people working in Hungary, which is an excellent figure in Europe, 1 million more than during the Socialist Gyurcsány period. We also see that more has to be spent on defence, which has been neglected in the socialist period. The defence must be modernised, and the challenges of this age must be met by the defence. In this budget, too, we have to protect our families in vain if we have to pay all the resources and resources for increased overhead costs. That's part of the budget. I think that the budget for 2024 is optimistic, but it is a cautious budget. Turning to my narrower Patriot, it seems that this budget also provides resources and ideas for the development of the countryside. In recent days, we have handed over an investment supported by the state; a HUF 15 billion finalized investment, which was also built with state aid and state aid. An investment that was not the investment of a foreign multinational company, but the investment of a Hungarian family business from Hungarian capital, and the largest investment in the food industry in the last few years. Support for investment in this budget will also continue, as it is the only way to increase economic growth and create jobs. I am pleased that the infrastructure investments that can sustain the rural population and economy will continue. This way, the M4 will continue to be rebuilt. Perhaps by a small mistake, there was no cost of planning. But not the design, but the motorway is built from Törökszentmiklós-West to the eastern part of Kisújszállás. If you're going that way, you can see it. Thank you, Mr State Secretary, thank you to the Government for putting a cautious but optimistic budget in front of us, which ensures that the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian state and families can look into the future in a safe and predictable way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-136	Thank you. I give the floor to János Pócs from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-13-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Under the governance of the Fidesz-KDNP, we are discussing budget 13. When negotiating the budget for 2024, it is appropriate to remember the message of Mór Jókai that he knows only how far we have come, who knows where we started. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, we started from the fact that the country was trapped by the IMF, on the brink of bankruptcy. On the other hand, we have spent thousands of billions of forints and spent on job creation and factory saving programs. We reduced taxes, contributions and created over a million new jobs. During the time of the left-wing governments, Hungarian families were unable to work and sought work abroad. On the other hand, we have introduced a family support system that is almost unique in the world and currently has 20 forms of support available to parents and prospective parents. We had to take back the energy sector defining our daily lives and work from foreigners after 2010, because otherwise, who knows how many times utility charges would have been raised. [[21.10]] We went through the reduction of the rent despite the fact that Hungary has paid 4,000 billion forints in the last year due to faulty sanctions. Today, we guarantee the average forints 181 thousand to the families. Ladies and gentlemen, We took government from the left by taking away a month's pension from pensioners and a month's salary from everyone. Thanks to the budget for the last 13 years, we have given the pensioners a 13th month pension and a pension premium, and we have raised the minimum wage on which the salary is based threefold. In the average health situation, the left introduced a prescription fee, a visit fee, a hospital daily allowance. In the emergency, in the Covid epidemic, we raised the wages of health workers, doubled the salaries of doctors, and handed over new hospitals. Before 2010, the left closed 116 schools, the educational institution ceased in thousands of settlements, and 14,000 teachers were put on the street. We're about to raise the biggest teacher's wage in history. Under left-wing governance, municipalities owed more than HUF 2000 billion of loans. The Fidesz-KDNP government took over all the government's debts, which had no credit, provided priority development to those municipalities, and introduced the popular Hungarian village programme. Ladies and gentlemen, Compared to the governments in front of us, we had to endure the test of time constantly in an emergency. We took over the country in bankruptcy, and then they unleashed a flood of migrants on us, and Covid came along, and then the war and the sanctions that were wrong. Thanks to Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance and his colleagues, thanks to a stable budget, we have come out of every crisis better than the current budget guarantees. The stable budget of the 13 years behind us will help the families, pensioners, economic units, municipalities to stand firm in the crisis caused by war and sanctions. In the spirit of these, the budget for 2024 is focused on strengthening the protection of rent, family, employment and defence, which is why we call it a defence budget. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget for 2024 was made during a war period. The Rezségvédelmi Fund, which has HUF 1360 billion, helps to pay the bills of families, municipalities, public authorities and companies. The Hungarian Defence Fund will have a budget of HUF 1310 billion in 2024. Support for Hungarian farmers will also be provided in the Hungarian budget in 2024. For next year's support for rural development, the government provides a budget of HUF 650 billion. Mostly, 80% of the resources are due to national budgetary contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, As always, but in the year ahead of us under war sanctions, it is especially true that every man's work is important. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to point out that the work of farmers providing daily bread and food is extremely important and essential for society. Thanks to the hard, tireless work and perseverance of the Hungarian agricultural sector, farmers, the country is moving in the right direction, which helps the country's economic performance. Ladies and gentlemen, In the spirit of these, please support the budget for 2024. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-13-138	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Tamás Herczeg of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-13-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! As Vice-President of the National Assembly Committee, I am now seeking to review the sources of the draft budget law of 2024 for national policy purposes, and I would like to add quickly that, when negotiating the budget, we are actually looking at the future of the nation and analysing it. However, it is worth making a small detour first, and from the present point of view, it is worth noting that 2023 is the year of the caring nation in national politics, the central message of which is that we pay attention to the Hungarian communities abroad, and in this spirit it can be stated that it is the responsibility of all Hungarians to care for each other. As in the epidemic situation, we can count on Hungarian families and communities across the border in the face of economic difficulties caused by war sanctions. Looking at the draft budget law, I believe that this thinking is typical for the coming year, this provision, which is what resources and financial frameworks tell us. With this, the unification started in 2010 will continue with the usual momentum on the basis of the draft ahead. Dear Parliament, Looking at the bill, it is clear that the government base of our national policy is the Prime Minister's Office. In this chapter of the budget, support for national policy activities and cross-border Hungarians can be found in the subtitle: 4 billion HUF 330.3 million will be managed in the year 2024, which is a minimum of less than last year's framework. With this source, the activity of the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme is ensured, with the aim of addressing the Hungarianness of the diaspora and organising the community and cultural life of the diaspora, keeping it at the level of Hungarian language knowledge and developing it with the help of scholarships. Similarly, the continuation of the Petőfi Sándor programme, which covers the territory of the former Monarchy, including Romania, Ukraine, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and South Poland. During the program we send 65 young Hungarians to these countries. In the countries concerned, Hungarian organizations, churches and educational institutions have defined areas where our fellow students can benefit most. Thanks to the two programmes, Hungarian organizations receive constant assistance in the diaspora and sporadic. So far, more than a thousand scholarships have helped the organisations, and in the 2022-23 programme phase, another 100 scholarships are serving. I will continue with the next sub-heading, so I can say that we will continue to ensure the costs of renovating facilities with church reservations abroad, and we support the development of infrastructure closely linked to the functions of ecclesiastical organizations, as the 103 years since Trianon proved that there is no greater strength than faith. The Prime Minister's Office supports the religious activity of Hungarians living in foreign and diaspora, as in this year, by HUF 500 million and by HUF 840 million. These amounts correspond to the numbers 2023. It is an extraordinary result that, in the present difficult times, the Government of Hungary can increase education, education and student support for foreign families by the order of magnitude. From the school year 22/23, the amount of support was granted to all children participating in training in Hungarian, which was HUF 22 500 in the previous academic year, and from the academic year 2022/23 the amount of support increased by more than four times, i.e. to HUF 100 thousand per year. The amount of this increased support is also guaranteed in the next year's budget. With this amount, we contribute to the daily livelihood of Hungarian families living in areas beyond state borders. It is very important that the continued operation of the Hungarian institutional system abroad remains a top priority in national policy. Institutions and organisations that play a decisive role in the survival of Hungarian communities will continue to receive permanent support under the "National Institutions" programme. This provides predictable, predictable support for more than 90 external institutions, organisations and programmes each year. As the next element of cooperation, we have supported the establishment and strengthening of sister settlements in the Carpathian Basin since 2015. As a result, more than a thousand metropolitan connections have already been established and become stronger, enriched with more and more content. [[21.20]] It is important to mention that the thematic years of the State Secretariat for National Policy will continue, under which significant programmes will be implemented to support Hungarian communities abroad. Turning to another area, I would like to say that, in addition to Community cooperation, support for economic cooperation has been achieved since 2021. The next element, which should be discussed, started in 2019 in Vojvodina, and has now become a reality in all the regions abroad. Thanks to the programme, a professional network of 750 foreign entrepreneurs has already been established in the Carpathian Basin. Dear House, It is important to mention the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which has a separate chapter in the draft budget law. The resources provided here will be doubled compared to the previous year's appropriations. This item has increased significantly already this year, with the amendment of the budget, in order to maintain the continuity of support for foreign Hungarians. The fund can manage 64 billion HUF 371.8 million next year. The Bethlen Gábor Fund is responsible for the extremely significant nationwide unification results without limit! for a program, which now provides more than 500 thousand Hungarian students' study trips abroad. This task will receive HUF 4 billion 569 million for the next year. I also highlight in the Bethlen Gábor Fund chapter the support of 1 billion 740 million 600 thousand HUF for the Rákóczi Association. The Rákóczi Association, building on its community, traditions and trust in the Carpathian Basin, performs its activities as a substitute for the service of Hungarians. Perhaps many do not know that their organisations operate in 599 settlements in the Carpathian Basin, with some 30,000 members. Their organisations and groups have carried out a number of local initiatives, community events and voluntary activities in the last year. Dear House, We also find national political aspects by looking at the sources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Cross-border economic development programmes will continue in 2024. Their primary objective is to support agriculture, tourism, business development and investment, contributing to local employment growth and job creation. The Hungarian communities are thus growing economically, and the chances of remaining in place are increasing, which is also good for neighbouring countries, since the positive benefits of paying taxes, employment and increasing consumption are in these countries. In 2024 we will therefore allocate 2 billion HUF 432.9 million to support the cross-border economic development programmes. The next element of the budget, which I am happy to report, is the Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme, which is managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs. A billion HUF 349 million can be used here next year. The Csángómagyarság Moldavia is an integral and inseparable part of our nation. The delegation of the Committee on National Inclusion was in Csángó Land in May, and I can only speak of the work done there in the voice of recognition. The educational programme coordinated by the Association of Moldva Csángó Hungarians aims to preserve and strengthen the knowledge of Hungarian language and culture. Each age group has the opportunity to participate in these Hungarian-language programs and provides many, many programmes from preschools to higher education students. In addition, traditional occupations are organised for all age groups within the framework of the programme to preserve and promote the values of Csángó magyarok. But we could also take stock of investments and real estate developments on the spot, highlighting Hungarian houses, which are very important workshops to preserve identity. Although there is still work to be done in the future, it is encouraging that the government can continue to ensure the expansion of the work we have seen in 2024, language development, traditionalism, social assistance and expansion of business recovery. Next, I would like to mention that next year, the Diaspora Higher Education Scholarship Programme, implemented for the first time in 2021 under the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, can continue. Within this framework, we support Hungarian higher education studies of young people living in diaspora with Hungarian roots with a budget of HUF 675 million. The draft budget therefore provides support from individual sectors for foreign Hungarians. The construction of a single Carpathian Basin space could continue, among other things, in the fields of culture, higher education, faith life, businesses, tourism and agriculture. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said at the 20th meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference in November last year, neither should strategic goals be given up in crisis situations, nor should national reunification be such a strategic goal. The budget of 2024 is proof of that. The chapters, sub-headings and sources of cross-border Hungarianism included in it guarantee the continuation of the unification. I would like to add so much to my current point that it is particularly gratifying for me that the unification programme can continue at this level in the near future, because in Békéscsaba, Békés county, there are many civil society organisations, individuals who cooperate with settlements across borders, cross-border areas, and in fact these cooperations, developments and programs are also covered. I would add that in the course of the negotiations on the budget, but in fact we get quite a lot of criticism from the opposition every parliamentary day, but I am happy to say that at the meetings of the Committee on National Inclusion, it is often said that the opposition's view is that national policy is good in Hungary, the direction followed by the government is good. In this spirit, therefore, I propose adopting the budget for the following year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-13-140	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Zsolt Herczeg of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-13-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. With regard to the budget for 2024, I would like to give some thought to the situation of the municipalities. However, before I say my thoughts about the budget, I cannot go without saying that, both today and on the occasion of the last political debate, DK's representatives made statements about the municipalities that were simply not true. First in chronological order, my fellow Member, Zoltán Varga, said that the municipalities managed irresponsiblely, which is what the Member said about the period before 2010. I became the mayor of Mezőtúr in 2010, and I saw exactly how I inherited the municipality; and earlier, as head of the local government company, I also saw that the municipality was trying to do everything it could to stay on its feet, but it had to finance a system of tasks that could not be solved otherwise, except by taking on operational credit. So the municipalities were basically working on loans or a lot of them. In this case, is it right to ask whether more than two thirds of nearly 3,200 municipalities managed irresponsiblely? No, ladies and gentlemen, that is not true; a lot of people managed responsibly, but it was quite simply impossible to solve the task, and after 2010, if the state debt transfer, which Mr. State Secretary spoke of a few minutes ago, did not happen, then what was called a debt settlement procedure in the municipal sphere would have come in our evening and even in the case of many municipalities. So we simply could not have avoided this situation. [[21.30]] László Varju said today that the municipalities are being eviscerated by the civilian government. Well, that's not what we're seeing. I, representative of the 4th constituency of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, see that even during this difficult period, even during this war period, besides the increased energy prices, the municipalities manage responsibly, and they could count on the support of the Hungarian government during the Covid period, and they can count on the support of the Hungarian government. As far as the budget for 2024 is concerned, the funding of municipalities also includes principles for supporting families, further increasing employment, and helping parents get into work. The impact of the increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage was a significant change in the local government's world in 2023, and the necessary coverage for this increase in wages is included in the bill of 2024. It is very joyful that the food provision of children and the effective organisation of the small children's care system will continue to be a priority. For example, for institutional children's meals and holiday meals, while in 2010 HUF 31.1 billion was available, more than HUF 105 billion is included in the budget of 2024. The question of solidarity contribution has also been raised many times today. In our constituency there are 18 settlements of less than 5 thousand inhabitants, and the vast majority of them have a lack of resources, so their local tax capacity is very low, and these settlements can count on the government's support in this connection. The rate of tax power under which these municipalities can benefit from the amounts paid by the solidarity contribution will now increase compared to 2023. Local governments can manage the project with HUF 4186 billion, for which the central budget provides HUF 1049.7 billion, which is 108.4 percent of the amount of 2023. The Renewal Fund can continue to provide compensation to municipalities, and will continue to do so. So far, settlements of less than 10,000 inhabitants have received support for the operation of crèches, children's meals and residential social institutions. They can now receive compensation in two new areas for the protection of electricity, which is the area of public lighting and kindergarten operation. For settlements above 10,000 inhabitants, compensation will also be possible for the tasks listed. Ladies and gentlemen, As far as the development area is concerned, there are nice things waiting for us here, as Hungarian municipalities already have a lot of awarded applications in the TOP Plus system. These are already being implemented. The Hungarian village is also active, which is implemented from state resources and domestic sources, of course, with a lower amount in this difficult period, but in 2024 there is already a slight increase compared to the previous year. And, of course, every municipality, especially the poorer municipalities, expects that if the situation normalises, the war will end as soon as possible, sooner or later our country will have a budget in which the Hungarian village programme can return to its original size, so that settlements can receive similar support again. This programme was a great initiative, and great things were born in these small settlements, which would not have had a chance to develop without a tender source. I would like to conclude by thanking all the municipalities in my constituency, the leaders of the municipalities, all my mayor colleagues, especially for the responsible management that they have done in the last year and this year, and I am thinking specifically of the current situation here. Of course, I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance, Minister, Secretary of State and all his colleagues for drawing up the budget. I ask all my fellow Members to support the draft. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-13-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As unbelievable as I am, I do not see any further comment for today's budget debate, but please calm down, everyone will be able to continue the debate on the budget in 900 minutes tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The general debate will be adjourned and will continue at 8 a.m. tomorrow morning. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, applied for a post-meeting address with the title "Active Public Affairs." Mr. Messenger, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-13-143	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The rains of the past few days have caused long-lost conditions in several Hungarian settlements. The most extreme situation was in Gyöngyöstarja of Heves County, where two people lost their lives as a result of the harsh destruction of the water from Mátra. However, the towns of Nógrád County, my narrower country, were not spared by the lightning flood. Between Ipolytarnóc and Nógrádszakál, the railway track was washed under water, and the road between Alsótold and Felsőtold was untraceable, thus preventing the road transport of the Inner-Cserhat. Mátraszőlős, Nagylóc, Ecseg, Nógrádmegyer, Nógrádszakál, Piliny, Kisbárkány, Lucfalva, Cserhászentiván, Nógrád, Samsonháza, Felsőtold, and I could still list the settlements where the water caused extreme problems, and unfortunately the values of the inhabitants of the settlement were wasted. But what does this have to do with politics? We should be able to ask the question. Our country's operational water management strategy is in a century-long delay. The current Hungarian governments, including the 13-year-old governor Orbán government, did not address an increasingly urgent problem due to the changing climate. The amount of water that rained on our country after a year called the drought of the century in the common language could practically destroy and destroy human lives instead of giving birth. However, the government would have had the opportunity to prevent this and even exploit water with a more thoughtful water management strategy. I recently presented in a video the channels around the city of Csongrád, which, even after such abundant weather, burst from drought. [[21.40]] This is what we see in all parts of the country, but there are worse places where these reservoirs have not yet been built. The budget for 2024 that we are discussing today is perhaps the best day and the best time to talk about exactly what resources need to be transferred to solve this task. According to the water records, we have 150 state-owned reservoirs, of which 91 are flatland inland reservoirs, 34 are hilly reservoirs and 25 are of other classifications. With EU and other resources from 2007 12 flatland and 6 hilly reservoirs have been built and are still being built. In order to increase domestic storage capacity in the long term, in 2016-2018 the sector assessed the storage and water retention possibilities in the plain and hills, resulting in a total of 474 potential sites. These were prioritized on the basis of feasibility, need for irrigation, ownership, nature conservation areas, impact on the area of water bases, volume to be stored, internal water and drought sensitivity. Between 2016 and 2019 a feasibility study was carried out for 49 selected sites, of which in 2022 a technical design of 10 hill and 7 flatland reservoirs was completed, laying the foundations for the preparation of future investments. So there are plans already, and only implementation should be put to a more serious level. Water reservoirs would benefit Hungarian farmers and Hungarian people both during the flood season and during droughts, only government will is lacking in order to prevent such natural disasters in the future and to have a balanced, safe water management. That is why I ask you to be born on your part, because you govern, the political decision and the will at last, and perhaps on the day of the budget hearing, I can at last say, please, at last, transfer resources to this very important issue that will be able to resolve these problems in the future. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2023-06-13-144	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you all for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
